
--- Page 1 ---
Shaping our
future impacts,
today
2023
Sustainability
Report
Stock Code: 00002

--- Page 2 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Contents
Welcome 3 Respecting Nature 61
Welcome to CLPʼs 2023 Sustainability Report 4 Introduction 62
Chairman and CEO’s message 6 Governance 64
Sustainability-related targets and performance 8 Strategy 67
Managing impacts, risks and performance 71
About this Report 9
Serving Our Stakeholders 86
Reporting frameworks and content indices 10
Reporting scope and data verification 12 Customers 87
Our people 116
Partners 133
Approach to Sustainability 17
Community 150
Governance 18 ESG Data Table and GHG 166
Risk management 23
Accounting Methodology
Stakeholder management 25
Materiality assessment process 28
The materiality matrix 33 Economic value generated and distributed 167
ESG data table 168
GHG accounting methodology 201
Our Sustainability Agenda 46
Glossary 205
Transition to net zero 47
Energy growth opportunities 50
Energy security and reliability 52
A safe, future-ready workforce 54
Business resilience 57
Community stewardship 59
CLP's 2023 How to navigate this report
reporting suite View Download Centre
This interactive PDF allows you to access information easily.
•
Navigate to different sections of the Report by using the
Contents page or top navigation bar.
•
Return to this Contents page by clicking the top left icon.
•
Click on hyperlinks to access additional information online.
CLP’s Climate Vision
2050: Powering an
orderly transition Annual Report
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 2

--- Page 3 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Welcome
Welcome to CLPʼs 2023 4
Sustainability Report
Chairman and CEO’s message 6
Sustainability-related targets 8
and performance

--- Page 4 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Welcome to CLPʼs 2023 Chairman and CEO’s message Sustainability-related targets
Sustainability Report and performance
Welcome to CLPʼs 2023
Sustainability Report
The year 2023 was a time of gradual recovery from the shocks of COVID-19. Yet turbulence
continued in the form of an unsettled economic outlook, complex global trade relationships, and
geopolitical tensions in Ukraine and the Middle East.
These uncertainties have highlighted the importance of On this basis, financially material topics and associated risks
preparedness for disruptions and the need to seize and opportunities that could reasonably be expected to affect
opportunities that could arise in the short, medium or long the Company’s prospects are discussed in the Annual Report,
term. On a positive note, the energy sector received some good while impact material topics relating to positive or negative
news as international fuel prices softened from their peak, impacts on people, the environment and the economy are
alleviating fuel cost pressures. Energy transition has remained covered in this Sustainability Report.
a key item on the global agenda with governments being urged
to translate their commitments to carbon-neutrality by the In light of growing concern for nature conservation, CLP
mid-21st century into actions. dedicates a chapter in this report to discussing nature-related
topics and with reference to the final recommendations of
In the third year of adopting the double materiality approach, the Task Force on Nature-related Financial Disclosures (TNFD)
CLP continued to assess its business sustainability from published in September 2023. CLP has continued to adopt a
both the financial and impact perspectives. In re-examining stakeholder-centric approach, highlighting how CLP manages
its material topics, CLP took further steps by developing the interests of its customers, people, partners and the wider
a systematic portfolio of its sustainability-related impacts, community from their perspectives.
risks and opportunities (IROs) described at a higher level
of granularity than previously. In particular, the approach In 2023, CLP also conducted a review of its Climate Vision
to define, assess and address these risks and opportunities 2050, with the aim of further accelerating its transition to a
were largely adopted from the latest International Financial net-zero future. Climate-related disclosures are integrated
Reporting Standards (IFRS) S1 – General Requirements for into the latest edition of the CLP's Climate Vision 2050:
Disclosure of Sustainability-related Financial Information Powering an orderly transition and in the Annual Report,
issued in June 2023. This transparent and up-to-date in which the disclosures make reference to ISSB's IFRS S2
assessment of its sustainability-related IROs, when combined Climate-related Disclosures.
with appropriate management measures, enables CLP to
ensure that its strategy is purpose-aligned and adaptable in an This report aims to provide insightful and informative
ever-changing business landscape. perspectives, offering a balanced view of CLP's sustainability
efforts. Feedback on this report is welcome and can be
shared through CLP’s online survey form or via email
at srfeedback@clp.com.hk.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 4

--- Page 5 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Welcome to CLPʼs 2023 Chairman and CEO’s message Sustainability-related targets
Sustainability Report and performance

--- Page 6 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Welcome to CLPʼs 2023 Chairman and CEO’s message Sustainability-related targets
Sustainability Report and performance
Chairman and
CEO’s message
“In 2023, the world’s first post-pandemic year, we
saw a global recovery amid economic and geopolitical
uncertainties. In this environment, it is important
to keep in mind some of the lessons we learned
from the COVID-19 years – namely, the importance
of building resilience, and of being ready to turn
challenges into opportunities that will create lasting,
positive impacts.”
The Honourable Sir Michael Kadoorie, Chairman, and T.K. Chiang, Chief Executive Officer
CLP is standing at the threshold of a transformative era. As climate goal of limiting global warming to 1.5°C while also
we move into 2024, we remain resolute in our mission for taking into account our operating context. This reflects our
an orderly transition to a net-zero future, while ensuring we efforts to increase our pace of transition between now and
maintain a secure and reliable energy supply. We also remain 2030. We also pledged to maintain our prior targets and
committed to empowering a future-ready workforce, and to commitments including phasing out coal before 2040. Our
delivering cutting-edge energy solutions that will meet the strategy is in line with the declaration from the COP28
evolving needs of our customers and drive positive change in international climate talks to transition away from fossil fuels.
the communities where we operate.
In 2023, we further lowered our GHG emissions intensity
Transitioning to net zero and continued to expand our renewable energy portfolio. By
2030, we envision a CLP Group portfolio which entails around
Decarbonisation stands as the foremost priority for our 60% of non-carbon power generation and energy storage,
business and Climate Vision 2050, our blueprint for achieving reducing coal down to approximately 20%, subject to market
net-zero greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) by mid-century, and regulatory developments. This will be a significant shift
remains the cornerstone of our strategy. In 2023, we for CLP.
embarked on a review to make sure that this blueprint stays
aligned with developments in the business as well as the EnergyAustralia announced its inaugural Climate Transition
external risks and uncertainties we face. Action Plan (CTAP) in August 2023, including a new
commitment to work with partners to expand its renewable
We have decided to strengthen our 2030 GHG emissions portfolio with up to 3GW to be committed or operational by
intensity target to more closely align with the international 2030. In India, Apraava Energy's Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 6

--- Page 7 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Welcome to CLPʼs 2023 Chairman and CEO’s message Sustainability-related targets
Sustainability Report and performance
intensity reduction target was validated by the Science Based As extreme weather events are becoming more frequent
Targets initiative (SBTi), aligning with the goal of limiting global and severe because of global warming, CLP remains focused
warming to 1.5°C above pre-industrial levels. on strengthening our generation and transmission network
reliability and resilience. We have also taken the opportunity
In line with the latest developments at COP28, we also to review our climate resilience as part of CLP’s Climate
recognise the indispensable role of nuclear energy in f ulfilling Vision 2050 update. Our efforts in assessing and adapting to
the objective of aligning with a 1.5°C pathway. Looking ahead, climate-related physical risks have been cascaded from the
we will continue to engage Government and explore the Group level to our individual assets.
import of more nuclear and renewable energy for the Hong
Kong grid. Empowering a future-ready workforce
Tapping into growth opportunities In response to the changing business environment, it is critical
for us to upskill and reskill our people so that we are ready
As the energy sector undergoes transformative changes, for change. We also need to ensure a strong pipeline of talent
we are embracing innovation and adopting advanced to meet our needs. As part of our holistic approach in talent
technologies to meet the evolving energy needs of our development, we invest tremendous resources to support the
customers and the wider community. In Hong Kong, we were professional growth of our people and generate the interest
pleased with the Hong Kong SAR Government’s approval of of students and young people in pursuing careers in power
our five-year Development Plan, a milestone agreement that engineering. We have an established, long-term strategy to
fortifies our commitment to meeting the energy demands cultivate in them a powerful sense of belonging, trust and
essential for the city’s long-term development. In the plan, we cooperation combined with the leadership skills to carry our
have committed ourselves to a range of investments designed business forward.
to bolster economic growth, support ongoing decarbonisation
and reinforce Hong Kong’s position as a smart, vibrant and As we reflect on the year 2023, we are proud of the
resilient city. progress we have made as a company and of the unwavering
commitment we have shown to creating positive impacts.
We are also accelerating the provision of a wide range of Looking ahead, the principal priority for our business is
integrated Energy-as-a-Service (EaaS) solutions to customers decarbonisation. The journey towards energy transition
in Hong Kong and the Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Greater demands bold action. We are aware of the challenges that
Bay Area (GBA). CLP achieved a milestone in corporate lie before us and will capitalise on the emerging opportunities.
partnerships by signing a strategic cooperation framework Guided by our updated Climate Vision 2050, we will continue
agreement with Shui On Xintiandi, in which CLP will supply to work tirelessly to shape a future where sustainable energy
renewable energy from Yangzhou Gongdao Solar Power and a thriving community go hand in hand.
Station to Shui On's Nanjing International Finance Center
commercial and office complex through a 10-year power
purchase agreement. It marked CLP's first medium to long-
term agreement of its kind in Mainland China.
The Honourable Sir Michael Kadoorie
Chairman
Ensuring a secure energy supply
In our role as an engine powering the community and
the economy, CLP is committed to ensuring a secure and
reliable energy supply. In Hong Kong, we have made strategic T.K. Chiang
investments in additional capacity at our Black Point Power Chief Executive Officer
Station and in the city’s first offshore LNG terminal, helping
to secure a competitively priced gas supply for our transition Hong Kong, 26 February 2024
away from coal.
In Australia, the 350MW Wooreen Energy Storage System
was approved by Victoria’s State Government in 2023, which
will contribute to securing the area’s energy supply with
additional renewable energy prior to the retirement of
Yallourn Power Station.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 7

--- Page 8 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Welcome to CLPʼs 2023 Chairman and CEO’s message Sustainability-related targets
Sustainability Report and performance
Sustainability-related targets
and performance
Sub-Category Targets Performance in 2023
Governance
Corruption Zero convicted cases of corruption reported to Audit and Risk Committee On track
Diversity and Maintain Board diversity for female Directors 33%
30%
inclusion representation
with a target of
People
Diversity and Achieve gender balance in leadership positions by 2030 29% ( 7% vs 2016 baseline)
inclusion
Achieve 30% of engineers to be female by 2030 13% ( 4% vs 2016 baseline)
Ensure equal pay for work of equal value is maintained in all CLP On track
businesses
Environment
Air Emissions Nitrogen oxide: 50% by 2030 29% vs. 2021 baseline
Sulphur dioxide: 55% by 2030 23% vs. 2021 baseline
Particulate 90% by 2030 12% vs. 2021 baseline
matters:
Waste Waste products¹: 70% by 2030 71% vs. 2021 baseline
Water Freshwater 85% by 2030 71% vs. 2021 baseline
consumption:
Climate Change
G in H te G n e si m ty is 2 s : ion 59% to 0.26kg CO₂e/kWh by 2030 14% vs. 2019 baseline
Absolute Scope
3 (Category 11) 28% by 2030 27% vs. 2019 baseline
GHG emissions3
Maintain commitment to phase out coal-based assets before 2040 On track
Achieve net-zero GHG emissions across our value chain by 2050 On track
Customer
Digitalisation Achieve 100% smart meters installation for CLP Power's residential Around 80% of all smart
and small-to-medium enterprise (SME) customers by 2025 meters were connected for
CLP Power’s residential and
SME customers in Hong Kong
1 Waste products include total waste produced from operation & maintenance activities and by-products produced by the coal-fired power plants.
2 Numbers include Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 Category 3 emissions (direct emissions from generation of purchased electricity that is sold to CLP’s customers).
3 Emissions from the combustion of natural gas supplied to customers.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 8

--- Page 9 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
About this Report
Reporting frameworks and 10
content indices
Reporting scope and data verification 12

--- Page 10 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Reporting frameworks and Reporting scope and
content indices data verification
Reporting frameworks and
content indices
CLP recognises that different methodologies are used globally Download the IFRS S1 General Requirements
to measure the sustainability performance of organisations. for Disclosure of Sustainability-related Financial
This report references several reporting guidelines and Information Content Index
frameworks to ensure comparability, an approach aligned with
international best practice.
Download the SASB Content Index for Electric
Utilities & Power Generators
The International Sustainability Standards Board
(ISSB)'s International Financial Reporting Standards
The ISSB's IFRS S2 Climate-related Disclosures
(IFRS) S1 General Requirements for Disclosure of
Sustainability-related Financial Information
The ISSB’s new IFRS S2 standards build on existing
frameworks and incorporate various leading initiatives such
In June 2022, the investor-focused sustainability disclosure
as Integrated Reporting (IR), the Sustainability Accounting
organisation the Climate Disclosure Standard Board (CDSB)
Standards Board (SASB), the Climate Disclosure Standards
and the Value Reporting Foundation (VRF) (created from
Board (CDSB), and the recommendations by the Task Force on
the merger of the International Integrated Reporting Council
Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD).
(IIRC) and the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board
(SASB)) were consolidated into the IFRS Foundation, to
CLP referenced the ISSB’s Climate-related Disclosures
support the development of new ISSB standards. In June
Prototype in its 2021 Climate-related Disclosures Report, and
2023, the ISSB under IFRS issued two inaugural Sustainability
the IFRS S2 Exposure Draft in its 2022 edition. In 2023, CLP
Disclosure Standards, IFRS S1 –General Requirements for
has continued to enhance its climate-related disclosures by
Disclosure of Sustainability-related Financial Information, and
making reference to the IFRS S2 standards when describing its
IFRS S2 – Climate-related Disclosures. These standards have
responses to relevant climate-related risks and opportunities,
already been endorsed by the International Organisation of
and providing annual updates and quantitative metrics in its
Securities Commissions (IOSCO) and have received strong
Annual Report. By integrating its Climate-related Disclosures
support from a number of jurisdictions, including Australia,
Report into the Annual Report, CLP is further aligning
China, Canada, Japan, Hong Kong, Malaysia, New Zealand,
itself with the integrated reporting principle. In addition, a
Nigeria, Singapore, and the UK. They are expected to inform
comprehensive climate transition plan titled CLP's Climate
and accelerate the development of sustainability-related
Vision 2050: Powering an orderly transition is published at the
regulatory initiatives globally.
same time in March 2024.
In response to these new IFRS standards, CLP in its 2023
In October 2023, the Task Force on Climate-related Financial
Annual Report has disclosed information about sustainability-
Disclosures (TCFD) announced that it had disbanded, having
related risks and opportunities that could reasonably be
fulfilled its remit. The Financial Stability Board (FSB) has asked
expected to affect the Company’s prospects. CLP is further
the IFRS Foundation to assume responsibility for monitoring
making sustainability a core part of its corporate thinking and
companies’ progress in climate-related disclosures.
business strategy by integrating the materiality assessment
process into its governance and risk management procedures,
as well as disclosing its strategies and metrics in relation to Download the IFRS S2 Climate-related Disclosure
significant sustainability issues. Content Index
For its 2023 Annual and Sustainability Reports, CLP has also
referenced the Integrated Thinking Principles and the SASB
Standards for Electric Utilities & Power Generators.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 10

--- Page 11 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Reporting frameworks and Reporting scope and
content indices data verification
The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Task Force on Nature-related Financial
Disclosures (TNFD)
The GRI is an international independent organisation that
provides a set of widely-used standards for sustainability The TNFD develops voluntary, consistent nature-related
reporting. CLP’s reports have made reference to the GRI financial risk disclosure recommendations for use by
Standards since 2007. companies when providing information to investors,
lenders, insurers and other stakeholders. It has issued 14
This report has been prepared in accordance with GRI recommendations on assessing nature-related risks and
Universal Standards 2021. It also reports on matters relevant opportunities in an organisation's governance, strategy,
to the GRI G4 Electric Utilities Sector Disclosures, covering risk and impact management, metrics and targets. Its
aspects of its sustainability performance that are meaningful recommendations include 10 core global disclosure indicators
and relevant to the electric utility sector. and metrics related to dependencies and impacts on nature,
as well as core disclosure metrics for organisation-level risk
and opportunity assessment. CLP makes reference to the
Download the GRI Content Index TNDF’s recommendations in disclosing its assessment of
nature-based risk and of its impact on nature in the chapter
Respecting Nature.
The Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG)
Reporting Guide of the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong
Other guidance documents developed for the TNFD have also
been referenced, including the sector-specific guidance for the
Companies listed on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange (the
power and utilities sector specifying the potential fi nancial
Exchange) are required to meet the Exchange’s ESG Reporting
impact of nature-related risks. Another reference that has
Guide disclosure obligations for financial years beginning from
been used is the Roadmap to Nature Positive: Foundations for
1 July 2020 onwards. The Guide was updated in 2019 after
the energy system, published by the World Business Council
extensive consultation conducted by the Exchange.
for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) in September 2023.
CLP is actively participating in the WBCSD’s Roadmap to
CLP’s Annual and Sustainability Reports adopted the updated
Nature Positive for the Energy System working group.
disclosure obligations from the 2019 reporting cycle onwards.
In particular, the materiality assessment process outlined
Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions data
under the mandatory disclosure requirements has been
applied to prioritise CLP's response to the "comply or explain"
CLP's GHG emissions are reported with reference to the
provisions of the Environmental and Social Aspects of the ESG
World Resources Institute (WRI)/WBCSD GHG Protocol,the
Reporting Guide.
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change’s Guidelines for
National Greenhouse Gas Inventories (2006), the International
The ISSB was formed in November 2021 and consultation
Standard for GHG Emissions ISO 14064 and relevant local
on the first two ISSB standards took place in 2022,
statutory guidelines where applicable.
prompting the Exchange to consider aligning Hong Kong’s
ESG reporting requirements with these widely supported
In 2007, CLP developed the first version of the Group-wide
international standards. The Exchange plans to enhance
GHG reporting guideline, which referenced some of the
climate-related disclosures under the ESG framework by
guidelines above. This reporting guideline is reviewed at least
introducing mandatory disclosures that are consistent with
every three years. In 2019, CLP enhanced its GHG disclosure to
the requirements of IFRS S2.
include the disclosure of Scope 3 emissions.
In April 2023, the Exchange published a consultation paper
seeking market feedback on its proposals to enhance
Read more on the GHG Accounting Methodology
climate-related disclosures. In November 2023, the Exchange
postponed the implementation date of the Listing Rule
amendments to 1 January 2025, subject to finalising the Listing
Rule amendments.
Download the HKEx ESG Reporting Guide
Content Index
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 11

--- Page 12 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Reporting frameworks and Reporting scope and
content indices data verification
Reporting scope and data verification
This report covers the CLP Group’s sustainability performance In 2023, the following data points have been adjusted:
for the calendar year ending 31 December 2023. It is published
•
at the same time as the CLP 2023 Annual Report. The CLP Health, Safety and Environment (HSE): To enhance
2023 Sustainability and Annual Reports were published in the credibility of data quality, one of the existing
March 2024, in tandem with the 2024 edition of CLP’s Climate environmental metrics, mercury as an air pollutant, is now
Vision 2050. independently assured.
•
CLP Group's GHG emissions intensity on an equity / equity
GRI reference: 2-2, 2-3, 2-4 plus long-term capacity and energy purchase basis: This
metric refers to the ratio of the equity and purchase
CLP reviews its reporting scope regularly to ensure that the
portion of GHG emissions to the equivalent portion of the
material impact of the Group’s overall portfolio is covered.
power sent out from CLP Group’s generation and energy
Any assets that were operating and later sold during the year
storage portfolio where CLP has an equity interest and
have been included in the reporting scope. In 2023, assets
long-term purchase arrangements. Starting from 2023,
added to the reporting scope included the Bobai wind farm,
the scope expands to cover spot purchases, including
Hong Kong LNG Terminal Limited (HKLTL), Darlington Point
electricity purchased from the National Electricity Market in
Energy Storage, and Riverina Energy Storage System II. With
Australia and electricity sent to the grid in Hong Kong (i.e.
the change in ownership of Apraava. Apraava’s n on-financial
through the Feed-In-Tariff Scheme or from other renewable
data on operational control basis has been removed from CLP
energy assets).
Holding’s accounts from 2023, while those on equity basis
continues to account for the data according to CLP’s equity
GRI Reference: 2-5
share in the asset. This is adjusted to align with other joint
ventures, on the condition that the same level of transparency
KPMG has provided limited assurance on a selected set of ESG
and disclosure is maintained in Apraava’s public disclosures. A
data in this report, in accordance with:
separate standalone Apraava data table with key n on-financial
data metrics can be found in the Section ESG data table. •
The International Standard on Assurance Engagements
3000 (Revised), Assurance Engagements other than Audits
or Reviews of Historical Financial Information; and
•
In respect of GHG emissions, the International Standard on
Assurance Engagements 3410, Assurance Engagements on
Greenhouse Gas Statements.
Download 2023 Independent Assurance Statement
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 12

--- Page 13 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Reporting frameworks and Reporting scope and
content indices data verification
Below are the Group's boundary definitions for each of the main categories of data included in this report. Please refer to CLP's
2023 Annual Report for more details on the entities included in the consolidated financial statements.
Finance Selected financial figures are extracted from the Annual Report and the consolidated financial statements
of CLP Holdings Limited and its subsidiaries (the Group). For a detailed description of the financial reporting
scope, please refer to the Material Accounting Policies - Consolidation and Equity Accounting on pages
221-222 of the 2023 Annual Report.
GHG emissions Includes the Group’s generation and energy storage portfolio, transmission and distribution, retail and other
CLP Group’s business activities where relevant, covering GHG emissions from Scope 1, 2 and 3.
total COe
2
emissions (on an Scope 1 COe
2
equity basis)
Includes the Group’s generation and energy storage portfolio, transmission and distribution infrastructure,
coal mines and fuel storage facilities that are:
•
Owned by CLP, where assets are included on an equity basis (i.e. data is calculated according to CLP’s
equity share in the asset); and
•
In operation during the reporting year.
Scope 2 COe
2
Includes the Group’s generation and energy storage portfolio, transmission and distribution infrastructure,
coal mines, fuel storage facilities and offices that are:
•
Owned or rented by CLP, with assets and offices included on an equity basis (i.e. data is calculated
according to CLP’s equity share in the asset); and
•
In operation during the reporting year.
Scope 3 COe
2
Includes indirect emissions (not included in Scope 2) that occur in the value chain of CLP. It includes emissions
from the Scope 3 categories relevant to CLP (see the GHG Accounting Methodology for details).
GHG emissions Data is consolidated on an equity basis with two variations:
CLP Group's
generation and 1. Equity basis includes assets in the Group’s generation and energy storage portfolio that are:
energy storage
– Owned by CLP, where assets are included on an equity basis (i.e. data is calculated according to CLP’s
portfolio (CO/
2 equity share in the asset); and
COe on an
2
– In operation during the reporting year.
equity/ equity
plus long-term 2. Equity plus long-term capacity and energy purchase basis adds on to (1) by including assets in the Group’s
capacity and generation and energy storage portfolio whose capacity and energy are purchased by CLP to meet
energy purchase customer demand, and where:
basis)
– The purchase agreement duration is at least five years; and
– Capacity or energy purchase is no less than 10MW.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 13

--- Page 14 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Reporting frameworks and Reporting scope and
content indices data verification
GHG emissions Includes the Group’s generation and energy storage portfolio, coal mines or fuel storage facilities that are:
CLP Group's
•
generation and Majority owned by CLP or under CLP’s operational control, defined as entities that have full authority to
energy storage implement CLP’s operating policies;
portfolio (CO/ •
2 In operation during the reporting year; and
COe on an
2 •
Having a material impact on the environment.
operational
control basis)
Unless otherwise stated, 100% of the performance data for in-scope assets is reported without adjustments
based on CLP's equity share.
GHG emissions 1. Equity basis:
intensity of CLP
Group’s The GHG emissions intensity of the portfolio owned by CLP. This is the ratio of the equity portion of GHG
generation and emissions to the equivalent portion of the power sent out from CLP Group’s generation and energy storage
energy storage portfolio where CLP has an equity interest. This includes Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions.
portfolio
(on an equity/ Equity basis includes the assets in the Group’s generation and energy storage portfolio that are:
equity plus long-
•
term capacity Owned by CLP, where assets are included on an equity basis (i.e. data is calculated according to CLP’s
and energy equity share in the asset); and
purchase basis) •
In operation during the reporting year.
2. Equity plus long-term capacity and energy purchase basis:
The GHG emissions intensity of electricity supplied to CLP’s customers (i.e. portfolio owned by CLP and
purchased electricity that is sold to CLP’s customers) is the ratio of the GHG emissions to the equivalent
portion of the power sent out from CLP Group’s generation and energy storage portfolio where CLP has an
equity interest and long-term purchase arrangements. This includes Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 emissions
(part of Category 3: direct emissions from generation of purchased electricity that is sold to CLP’s customers).
Equity plus long-term capacity and energy purchase basis includes the assets in the Group’s generation and
energy storage portfolio which are:
•
Owned by CLP, where assets are included on an equity basis (i.e. data is calculated according to CLP’s
equity share in the asset) and in operation during the reporting year;
•
The Group’s generation and energy storage portfolio whose capacity and energy are purchased by CLP
to meet customer demand, and where:
– The purchase agreement duration is at least five years; and
– Capacity or energy purchase is no less than 10MW.
In addition, spot purchases including electricity purchased from the National Electricity Market in Australia
and electricity sent to the grid in Hong Kong (i.e. via theFeed-In-Tariff Scheme or from other renewable
energy assets) are also included.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 14

--- Page 15 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Reporting frameworks and Reporting scope and
content indices data verification
GHG emissions Includes power generation assets involved with the delivery of electricity to CLP Power customers, where:
intensity
•
of electricity The CO and COe emissions are from generation assets owned or controlled by CLP Power/ CAPCO in
2 2
sold Hong Kong only (i.e. excluding nuclear power generation, which does not result in significant carbon
CLP Power Hong emissions); and
Kong Limited •
The kWh is from the total electricity sales for CLP Power.
(CLP Power)
Environment Includes the Group’s generation and energy storage portfolio, transmission and distribution infrastructure,
Resource use, coal mines and fuel storage facilities that are:
air emissions
•
and Majority owned by CLP or under CLP’s operational control, defined as entities that have full authority to
environmental implement CLP’s operating policies;
compliance •
In operation during the reporting year; and
•
Having a material impact on the environment.
Unless otherwise stated, 100% of the performance data for in-scope assets is reported without adjustments
based on CLP's equity share.
Asset Data is consolidated on an operational control basis. It includes those assets in the Group’s generation and
management energy storage portfolio that are:
Energy sent out,
•
fuel use (on an Majority owned by CLP or under CLP’s operational control, defined as entities that have full authority to
operational implement CLP’s operating policies; and
control basis) •
In operation during the reporting year.
Unless otherwise stated, 100% of the performance data for in-scope assets is reported without adjustments
based on CLP's equity share.
Asset Data is consolidated on an equity basis with two variations:
management
Generation and 1. Equity basis: includes assets in the Group’s generation and energy storage portfolio that are:
energy storage
– Owned by CLP, where assets are included on an equity basis (i.e.data is calculated according to CLP’s
capacity, energy
equity share in the asset); and
sent out
– Under construction (for generation and energy storage capacity only) or in operation during the
reporting year.
2. Equity plus long-term capacity and energy purchase basis adds on to (1) by including assets in the Group’s
generation and energy storage portfolio whose capacity and energy are purchased by CLP to meet
customer demand, and where:
– The purchase agreement duration is at least five years; and
– Capacity or energy purchase is no less than 10MW.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 15

--- Page 16 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Reporting frameworks and Reporting scope and
content indices data verification
People Includes people employed by CLP entities and their subsidiaries. This also includes CLP employees who are
assigned to work in joint ventures, joint operations or associates.
Safety Includes the Group's generation and energy storage portfolio, transmission and distribution infrastructure,
coal mines, fuel storage facilities and offices that are:
•
Majority owned by CLP or under CLP’s operational control, defined as entities that have full authority to
implement CLP’s operating policies; and
•
Under construction or in operation during the reporting year.
Unless otherwise stated, 100% of the performance data for in-scope assets is reported without adjustments
based on CLP's equity share.
Governance Includes breaches of the Code of Conduct and convicted cases of corruption associated with people
employed by CLP entities and their subsidiaries. This also includes cases associated with CLP employees who
are assigned to work in joint ventures, joint operations or associates.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 16

--- Page 17 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Approach
to Sustainability
Governance 18
Risk management 23
Stakeholder management 25
Materiality assessment process 28
The materiality matrix 33

--- Page 18 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Governance Risk management Stakeholder management Materiality The materiality matrix
assessment process
Governance
Good corporate governance and risk management form the bedrock of a sustainable business
and underpin its long-term success. The Group is continuously striving to embed good
corporate governance practices in its day-to-day operations through the implementation of
its Value Framework.
Corporate governance framework The CLP Code was updated in early 2023 to reflect the
new requirements under the Corporate Governance Code
and code
Appendix C1 of the Rules Governing the Listing of Securities on
The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited (the Exchange).
CLP has a robust corporate governance framework that While embracing the requirements of the Exchange's
promotes and safeguards the interests of its shareholders and Corporate Governance Code, the CLP Code goes beyond it
other stakeholders. It is committed to maintaining a rigorous by building on CLP’s own standards and past experience.
framework of corporate governance that upholds the Group’s
credibility and reputation. The Board is CLP’s highest governance body, and is responsible
for directing and supervising all its affairs in a responsible
GRI reference: 2-9, 2-12, 2-15, 2-23, 2-24 and effective manner. Some of its responsibilities are
delegated to five Board Committees. The two committees
CLP's corporate governance structure consists of a CLP most involved in sustainability-related matters are the
Code on Corporate Governance, a Corporate Governance Sustainability Committee and the Audit & Risk Committee.
Framework, and a comprehensive set of procedures, systems,
policies and guidelines.
Find out more about Sustainability Governance in
this report
Download the CLP Code on Corporate Governance
How CLP Holdings approaches corporate governance
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 18

--- Page 19 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Governance Risk management Stakeholder management Materiality The materiality matrix
assessment process
The CLP Corporate Governance Report in the Annual Report
discloses the Company's governance performance in detail.
Below are the highlights from 2023.
•
Board Succession - Announced the sucesssion plans for
the CEO transition and appointed an Independent Non-
Executive Director (INED) whose skills, experience and
background are well aligned with the Board's focus on
organisational talent capability;
•
Board Committees Refresh - Refreshed the composition of
CLP Holdings Board Committees;
•
Implementing Findings from Board Review - Implemented
two key initiatives from the 2022 External Board Review
findings including introduction of Management B riefing
sessions for the Board, and updates of the CLP Holdings
Board Committee Chairs to the CLP Holdings Board at
Board meetings; and
•
Governance Oversight and Key Announcements - Exercised
oversight of a number of material developments and
announced these to the market contemporaneously,
including CEO transition, key developments for the Hong
Kong Scheme of Control Business and profit warning.
Read the Corporate Governance Report in the
2023 Annual Report
The Human Resources and Remuneration Committee Report
covers CLP’s Remuneration Policy, including the n on-financial
metrics considered for executives’ remuneration.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 19

--- Page 20 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Governance Risk management Stakeholder management Materiality The materiality matrix
assessment process
Sustainability governance throughout the Group, from Board-level committees to
management-level Group functions and business units.
GRI reference: 2-9, 2-12, 2-13, 2-14, 2-23
Two of the Board Committees, the Sustainability Committee
and the Audit & Risk Committee, have separate but
CLP’s strong governance framework ensures that the
complementary roles in sustainability management. These
sustainability issues it faces are incorporated into its
two committees are supported by the Sustainability
corporate agenda and business strategy. The CLP Board has
Executive Committee and coordinated by the Group
overall responsibility for CLP’s sustainability reporting and
Sustainability Department.
performance. Sustainability governance has been embedded
in the corporate governance structure
Sustainability Committee and opportunities, goals, targets, material topics
and performance;
The primary role of the CLP Board-level Sustainability •
Reviewing and recommending sustainability-related
Committee (SusCom) is to oversee the management of the
disclosures in the Annual Report, in addition to the
Group’s sustainability issues.
Sustainability Report, for approval by the Board; and
•
Monitoring compliance with any applicable laws and
Ensuring that the Committee maintains a balanced view and
regulations regarding sustainability-related disclosures in
is updated on the sustainability issues, the Committee was
the jurisdictions where CLP operates.
briefed by a leading external expert on the Path to Net Zero
and also by management on the reflections and key takeaways
The Committee is now led by an independent Chairman
from COP28.
and is required to consist of at least five members being
Non-executive Directors, with at least three Independent Non-
In January 2024, the terms of reference of the Committee
executive Directors . The frequency of Committee meetings
were revised to reflect the focus of the Committee that
has increased from a minimum of twice a year to three times
has evolved over time and its nature as a Non-executive
a year.
Directors committee with oversight of management’s work
on sustainability. The Committee endorsed key changes
to the terms of reference which included updating the Download the Terms of Reference of the
Committee membership, expanding the responsibilities of Sustainability Committee
the Committee, updating the CLP Group-level sustainability-
related frameworks and increasing the frequency of
Committee meetings. The Committee’s responsibilities expand
to include:
•
Reviewing CLP’s long-term corporate strategy from
the perspectives of the Group’s sustainability risks
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 20

--- Page 21 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Governance Risk management Stakeholder management Materiality The materiality matrix
assessment process
Overview of work conducted by the Sustainability Committee between 2023 and the date of this Report
2023 2024
Feb Jun Nov Jan Feb
Climate Change-related Matters
Other Sustainability Matters – risks, opportunities and emerging issues
Sustainability Reporting/Indices performance
Sustainability Governance
Health, Safety, Security and Environment
Community, Charitable and Environmental Partnerships and Initiatives
The Committee will continue its focus on longer-term emerging sustainability issues concerning the Group, in particular on climate
change. It is well aware of the Group’s stakeholders’ increasing focus on climate-related issues.
Sustainability Executive Committee
Read the full Sustainability Committee Report in
the 2023 Annual Report
The Sustainability Executive Committee (SEC) has the strategic
responsibility of assessing and managing sustainability issues.
Audit & Risk Committee
The SEC is chaired by the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) as
A key responsibility of the Audit & Risk Committee (ARC)
part of that role’s executive-level responsibility for economic,
is to maintain oversight of CLP’s financial control, risk
environmental and social matters. Set up in 2016, the SEC
management and internal control processes, ensuring that
comprises the corporate senior management team of:
adequate systems are in place and are being followed.
•
Mr T. K. Chiang (CEO) (since October 2023), in place of Mr
Download the Terms of Reference of the Audit & Richard Lancaster (former CEO), Chairman, and member of
Risk Committee the Sustainability Committee;
•
Mr Nicolas Tissot (Chief Financial Officer);
Risks are managed at both the strategic and operational •
Mr Derek Parkin (Chief Operating Officer);
levels, in ways that support the long-term sustainability of
•
CLP’s growth objectives and the operational needs of the Mr David Simmonds (Chief Strategy, Sustainability and
current business. Governance Officer);
•
Ms Quince Chong (Chief Corporate Development Officer);
The ARC is also responsible for ensuring appropriate data •
Ms Eileen Burnett-Kant (Chief Human Resources
assurance of the ESG data in the Sustainability Report.
Officer); and
Independent oversight is maintained through an assurance
•
of the accuracy of metrics and reporting, following appropriate Mr Hendrik Rosenthal (Director – Group Sustainability).
accounting principles and reporting practices, in addition to
the robust internal control system. CLP’s independent non-
Full biographies of Group Executive Committee
financial auditor is responsible for key ESG data assurance, and members are set out on the Group’s website
their findings and observations are presented to management
and the Board through the ARC.
The SEC steers the sustainability strategy of the Group
and approves relevant deliverables. The CEO and CFO also
Read the full Audit & Risk Committee Report in the hold management responsibilities for the assurance of ESG
2023 Annual Report data, and jointly sign off the General Representation Letter
connected with the assurance process.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 21

--- Page 22 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Governance Risk management Stakeholder management Materiality The materiality matrix
assessment process
In 2023, the SEC convened six times and served as a Platform, to support Group-level data integration and
platform for the executive team to initiate or develop strategic reporting capabilities;
sustainability projects, receive updates on ongoing initiatives, •
Reviewed the scope of sustainability data assurance;
and engage in strategic discussions on emerging issues.
•
Reviewed the updated procedure on accounting for
avoided GHG emissions; and
Key actions in 2023 are summarised below:
•
Reviewed and endorsed CLP’s Nature and Biodiversity
•
Provided direction to CLP's Climate Vision 2050 review, Action Plan, including a Group-level location-based
including the revision of Group-wide targets, in light of the biodiversity assessment.
latest developments of the business plan;
• Group Sustainability Department
Reviewed the guidance on climate-related terminology
to ensure the consistent communication of CLP’s climate
The Director-led Group Sustainability Department regularly
strategy and initiatives across the Group, and to avoid
reports to and seeks guidance from the Sustainability
‘greenwashing’ risks;
Committee and the SEC.
•
Monitored feedback received on EnergyAustralia’s Climate
Transition Action Plan published in August 2023;
The Department is responsible for managing the
•
Reviewed CLP’s response to public consultations, including implementation of the Group’s climate change strategy.
the consultation by the Glasgow Financial Alliance for Net This includes reporting and reviewing progress on the
Zero (GFANZ) in relation to its new voluntary guidance for implementation of CLP’s Climate Vision 2050 and IFRS
financial institutions; standards, maintaining oversights of the development of
• carbon markets across CLP's markets and the Group's
Maintained oversight of the Company’s public disclosures
involvement in these markets, as well as monitoring changes in
on sustainability issues, including in the CLP Annual Report
stakeholder expectations and assessing their implications for
and Sustainability Report;
the Company.
•
Monitored the evolving international ESG reporting
standards, including the IFRS S1 General Requirements for
The Department works to embed sustainability into existing
Disclosure of Sustainability-related Financial Information
operational practices and to inform the development of
and the IFRS S2 Climate-related Disclosures, and the
CLP’s business strategy and planning processes. It monitors
Task Force on Nature-related Financial Disclosures (TNFD),
sustainability issues and updates the Sustainability Committee
and assessed their implications for the Company's
and the SEC on emerging risks and opportunities. It also
own disclosures.
leads corporate sustainability reporting and identifies areas
•
Provided direction for the Company’s response to various for improving operational performance.
ESG disclosure standards, including the proposal by the
Stock Exchange of Hong Kong to mandate climate-related The Department is committed to developing its ESG data
disclosures in issuers’ ESG reports under Appendix 27 of the reporting and performance management capacity and sharing
Exchange’s Listing Rules and Guidance; its experience across organisations, sectors and countries.
• It supports and organises sustainability-related events and
Reviewed the material topics identified in the materiality
works closely with different stakeholder groups. For instance,
assessment and determined the impact material topics
the Department hosts Sustainability Forums and conducts
and financially material topics to be featured in the
regular meetings with Group functions and Business Units
Sustainability Report and the Annual Report respectively;
across regions to facilitate the sharing of experience and
•
Monitored investor feedback during ESG roadshows and insights into advancing sustainability.
identified areas for improvement in the light of investors’
expectations relating to ESG performance and reporting;
•
Reviewed the performance of ESG indices results and
trends of increasing demands for robust management
of social issues, and disclosure of the financial impact of
ESG issues;
•
Reviewed proposed data management solutions and
their delivery strategy, including the Data Analytic
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 22

--- Page 23 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Governance Risk management Stakeholder management Materiality The materiality matrix
assessment process
Risk management
CLP’s risk management framework promotes a judicious risk culture, empowering the Company
to capitalise on opportunities while securing its long-term growth and success.
Risk management framework Risk management process
In line with international standards and best practices, CLP Based on these four key elements, CLP’s risk management
defines “risk” as the effect of uncertainty on objectives. process forms an integral part of its business and
The effect can be positive, negative, or both, and can decision-making processes, including strategy formulation,
result in opportunities and threats. CLP aims to identify business development, business planning, capital allocation,
risks early so that threats can be understood, managed, investment decisions, internal control and day-to-day
mitigated, transferred or avoided, and opportunities can be operations. This is achieved through various means including
enhanced and captured where appropriate. This requires communication and consultation, monitoring and review, as
a proactive approach and an effective Group-wide risk well as recording and reporting. The Board oversees this
management framework. process through the Audit & Risk Committee.
GRI reference: 2-23, 205-1 Underpinned by a robust risk management process, CLP
maintains a vigilant approach in monitoring the evolving
CLP’s risk management framework comprises four external environment and megatrends, which may have
key elements: significant implications for CLP’s business and markets. For
more detailed information, please refer to the Materiality
1. Risk management philosophy; assessment section.
2. Risk appetite;
Furthermore, CLP's risk management process takes into
3. Risk governance structure; and
account the identified material topics which are determined
4. Risk management process. through comprehensive annual materiality assessments. The
assessment enables CLP to assess and respond to the
sustainability matters that are most likely to impact CLP’s
business and stakeholders. In addition, Climate Vision 2050
is also an integral part of CLP's broader climate strategy,
which covers key considerations around scenario analysis
CLP’s Risk Management Process
and long-term climate risks and opportunities i dentification,
among others. It guides CLP in managing these issues.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 23

--- Page 24 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Governance Risk management Stakeholder management Materiality The materiality matrix
assessment process
CLP reviews how sustainability issues are impacting the business and its stakeholders through an annual materiality assessment
process, which uncovers emerging sustainability risks and opportunities for consideration in the risk review and business planning
processes. Below is a list of selected top tier risks with sustainability drivers identified:
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 24

--- Page 25 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Governance Risk management Stakeholder management Materiality The materiality matrix
assessment process
Stakeholder management
CLP is dedicated to fostering open, transparent, regular and timely communication with its
stakeholders, demonstrating willingness to address their concerns, and building trust and
confidence. This commitment is delivered through the implementation of the CLP Stakeholder
Engagement Framework.
Strategies and procedures 5. Conducting engagement activities
6. Capturing feedback and reporting on outcomes: CLP
CLP’s Stakeholder Engagement Framework provides open seeks to address stakeholders’ views and concerns while
and transparent channels for stakeholder input, along with a identifying areas for improvement. To do so, various
review and consideration process that responds to concerns measures are employed, including capturing stakeholder
about CLP's business in a timely manner. feedback, assessing the outcomes of CLP's stakeholder
engagement efforts, monitoring and analysing media
GRI reference: 2-12, 2-16, 2-25, 2-29, 207-3, 413-1 coverage; tracking brand perception ratings; and evaluating
public and industry recognition and awards.
Each business unit develops its own project- specific
engagement plan according to their needs, based on the CLP's Stakeholder Engagement Framework
framework steps below.
1. Establishing engagement scope and aligning with
business objectives
2. Mapping issues and concerns
3. Identifying relevant stakeholders: CLP engages with a
diverse range of stakeholders, each with distinct attributes,
concerns and interests. Key stakeholder groups for each
project are identified and prioritised based on the issues
mapped, how stakeholders will be impacted, and the nature
of their influence on the business.
4. Developing a communications and engagement plan: CLP
uses a wide range of easily accessible public engagement
channels, both formal and informal. These channels include
surveys, focus groups, briefings, visits, events, roadshows
and online channels, where stakeholders can express
their concerns, interests or provide feedback throughout
the year. Drawing on past experience, the channels
for each project are selected based on the project’s
nature and the most effective means of reaching the
identified stakeholders.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 25

--- Page 26 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Governance Risk management Stakeholder management Materiality The materiality matrix
assessment process
CLP’s stakeholder different actions or responses. General complaints about the
Company are typically handled by the customer relations
engagement channels
team. On the other hand, the Company ensures transparency
by disclosing its financial and non-financial performance
As one of the largest investor-owned power businesses in through the Group website, the Annual and Interim Reports
Asia, CLP serves a diverse range of stakeholders. Drawing and the Sustainability Report.
on CLP’s active and constructive dialogue with different
stakeholders, this section presents the key concerns expressed The following table summarises key stakeholders, their main
by stakeholders in 2023. areas of interest during the year, and how they were
engaged with.
GRI reference: 2-12, 2-25, 2-29
The Company is committed to responding to stakeholder
concerns about the business in a timely manner. Concerns vary
depending on location and context and therefore require
Stakeholders Areas of Interest in 2023 Key Engagement Channels
• •
Financial and operational performance and Annual General Meeting
strategic direction •
Annual and Interim Results Analyst B riefings
•
Impact of macroeconomic events and impact of interest and webcasts
rate hikes on financing costs, liquidity, financing strategies •
Corporate reports
and risk management
•
• CLP Investor Relations App
Impact of incidents or natural disasters on the company’s
•
Capital providers operations and insurance coverage Climate Action Finance Report
• •
Cash flow, financial and debt management, capital Announcements, circulars, presentations and
(including structure, dividend policy, dividend prospects, and media releases
lenders, investors credit ratings • Direct engagement in form of bank and investor
and shareholders) •
Progress of decarbonisation and CLP's Climate Vision 2050 meetings, conferences, site visits, briefing calls and
• non-deal roadshows
Approach to phasing out coal and replacement strategy
•
• Investor Relations mailbox
Capital allocation, growth prospects, and
•
business opportunities Outreach engagement following the release of
• 2024-28 Development Plan for Hong Kong Scheme
Adoption of new technologies to achieve net zero
of Control business
•
2024-28 Development Plan for Hong Kong Scheme of
Control business and 2023 Interim Review
•
EnergyAustralia’s financial and operational performance
and Australian market conditions
•
Pace of renewable energy investments in Mainland China
and exposure to geopolitical tensions
•
Growth in Apraava Energy with the partnership with CDPQ
•
Nature, human rights and just transition
• •
Energy prices, tariff adjustment and tariff rebate schemes Working groups, e.g. Customer Consultative Group,
local customer advisory committees and small and
•
Energy efficiency, demand side management and medium enterprise (SME) consultative groups
renewable energy offerings to customers • Customer Service Centres, Customer Interaction
•
Energy reliability and availability Centre and online service portals
• •
Customer experience Customer satisfaction surveys, feedback forms
• and personalised communications through
Customer privacy
Customers account managers
•
Participation in government schemes
(including customers,
electricity boards
and grid companies)
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 26

--- Page 27 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Governance Risk management Stakeholder management Materiality The materiality matrix
assessment process
Stakeholders Areas of Interest in 2023 Key Engagement Channels
• •
Performance in health and safety Employee engagement and safety culture surveys
• •
Employees’ health and wellbeing Feedback channels (including online forms,
• suggestion boxes, townhall meetings, focus groups,
Competitive remuneration and benefits
regular roadshows)
•
Career development opportunities •
Employee newsletters, broadcasts, intranet,
•
Gender diversity and equal opportunity internal webinars
•
Discussion with trade union representatives in
Our people locations where collective bargaining power
is recognised
(including employees
and contractors)
• •
Hong Kong – Scheme of Control Agreement, tariffs, Regular working group meetings, communications and
environmental performance, reliability and safety and performance reporting
long-term decarbonisation strategy •
Written responses to public consultations and
•
Mainland China – decarbonisation strategy, renewable direct liaison with governments, regulators and
energy projects development, carbon emissions, safety, relevant parties
reliability and emergency readiness •
Engagements and site visits for understanding CLP’s
Partners • Australia – System stability and reliability; reserve capacity decarbonisation strategies
roles and investment in renewables; transmission planning •
Face-to-face meetings and visitations by top
(including and deployment; customer hardship, cost of living and
management to deepen strategic long-term
governments, retail tariffs; environmental, sustainability and carbon
partnerships for pursuing mutual growth
regulators, suppliers frameworks, policies and plans including modern slavery.
and development
and contractors) •
India – National Action Plan on Climate Change (NAPCC),
Power Purchase Agreements (PPA) and tariffs
• •
Contractors’ safety Regular supplier management meetings
• and engagements
Contractors’ supply chain management
•
Safety workshops to engage contractors to uplift their
safety awareness and capability
•
Periodical supplier performance evaluations
•
Regular risk and resillience review of key suppliers'
supply chain risks
• •
Community engagement and investment programmes Working committees, advisory committees, panels
related to education, empowerment of women, healthcare and meetings
access, poverty alleviation, social inclusion, diversity and •
Community investment programmes and
eliminating energy poverty
volunteering services
•
Upward mobility opportunities, particularly for •
Awards and scholarships
young people
•
• Seminars, lectures, workshops and online classes
Carbon neutrality by 2050, future fuel mix and electricity
•
market development Promotion through mass media and social media
Community
• (including educational videos)
Supply reliability, responses to incidents, fuel cost and
•
(including tariff level One-on-one meetings and visitations
• •
community groups, Responses to social incidents and public sentiment and Engagements and site visits for understanding CLP’s
legislators, NGOs, CLP’s role as a corporate citizen decarbonisation strategies
industry and • •
Assistance to people in need and to different community Senior management’s participation in speaking forums,
professional
sectors in addressing emerging social needs briefings and engagement events to articulate CLP’s
organisations,
• thought leadership on its climate vision
and academia) Progress on key green infrastructure projects
•
Energy efficiency and conservation, popularisation of
electric vehicles and development of the green economy
•
Sustainable energy solutions to meet climate challenges
and opportunities arisen in transition to net zero
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 27

--- Page 28 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Governance Risk management Stakeholder management Materiality The materiality matrix
assessment process
Materiality assessment process
The materiality assessment process is the foundation of CLP’s best practice sustainability
management and reporting, enabling it to integrate sustainability into its business strategy and
create long-term value for stakeholders.
Overview of the In 2023, CLP considered the latest best practice advice from
standard setters, including the following, amongst others:
assessment approach
•
The ISSB's IFRS S1 General Requirements for Disclosure of
A materiality assessment helps to contextualise sustainability- Sustainability-related Financial Information, published in
related impacts, risks and opportunities, and decide how June 2023;
these should be disclosed in CLP's reports. By combining •
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021; and
both internal and external stakeholder views with extensive
megatrend analysis, CLP determines the sustainability •
Applying Enterprise Risk Management to Environment,
material topics that are most financially material to its
Social and Governance-related Risk Guidelines, published
business and to stakeholders from an impact perspective.
by the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of
the Treadway Commission (COSO) and the WBCSD in
GRI reference: 2-12, 3-1, 3-2
October 2018.
Global standards for best practice in assessing materiality
have continued to evolve in line with broader changes
in sustainability disclosure standards. Most notable are
the new standards, IFRS S1 and IFRS S2, published by
the International Sustainability Standards Board (ISSB) in
June 2023, which provide additional clarity on how to
assess financial materiality. Similarly, the GRI Sustainability
Reporting Standards upgraded the materiality assessment
methodology in 2021.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 28

--- Page 29 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Governance Risk management Stakeholder management Materiality The materiality matrix
assessment process
Enhancing the double be expected to affect the Company’s prospects, while the
Sustainability Report includes sustainability topics that have a
materiality approach
material impact on people, the environment and the economy.
Since 2018, CLP’s materiality assessments consider how In 2023, CLP continued to identify and assess potential
megatrends could impact the sustainability of the Company’s sustainability impacts, risks and opportunities, and further
business strategy in the medium to long term. In 2021, CLP align its reporting with the IFRS S1 standard. Its assessment
proactively embraced the concept of double materiality to process enables CLP to identify areas of material topic, and to
support its sustainability risk management and to inform understand how sustainability-related risks and opportunities
the sustainability-related content of its annual suite of can be integrated into the Group’s strategic planning and risk
reports. This approach means that CLP’s Annual Report covers management processes.
financially material sustainability topics that could reasonably
Double materiality approach
The double materiality approach has streamlined the disclosures in the Annual Report and Sustainability Report. The
sustainability agenda and associated CLP responses are summarised in The Materiality Matrix section of this report and
the Delivering Our Sustainability Agenda chapter of the Annual Report.
Read more in the Delivering Our Sustainability Read more in the Our sustainability
Agenda chapter in CLP's 2023 Annual Report agenda section
Read more in the Overview of Delivering Our
Sustainability Agenda chapter in CLP's 2023 Read more in the Materiality matrix section
Annual Report
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 29

--- Page 30 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Governance Risk management Stakeholder management Materiality The materiality matrix
assessment process
The double materiality CLP implements the double materiality assessment process
based on a three-year cycle. Each year, there are variations in
assessment cycle
the breadth and scope of the assessment process, with Year 1
involving a comprehensive assessment and Years 2 and 3
While CLP's methodology has continuously evolved to r eflect focusing on revalidation and the incorporation of incremental
changes in best practices, the material topics identified since changes with reduced time requirements.
2018 have remained relatively consistent, with only minor
updates over the period. This reflects the reality that, in the
absence of material changes in the operating environment,
material topics relevant to CLP are unlikely to change within a
short to medium timeframe.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 30

--- Page 31 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Governance Risk management Stakeholder management Materiality The materiality matrix
assessment process
The assessment process in 2023 International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE)
3000 (Revised), Assurance Engagements Other Than
Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information. By
GRI reference: 2-12, 3-1
setting an example, CLP demonstrates its commitment to
transparency and accountability in its materiality assessment
In 2023, CLP undertook the Year 3 assessment
process and ensures the integrity and credibility of its
approach. For the first time, CLP has appointed a non-
sustainability reporting.
financial auditor to perform limited assurance over its
materiality assessment process in accordance with the
Conduct stakeholder interviews interviewed in 2023. The interviews explored the strengths,
weaknesses, opportunities, and threats associated with each
Megatrends are large, transformative global forces that define identified megatrend.
the future by having a far-reaching impact on business,
economies, industries, societies and individuals. In 2023, CLP In addition, CLP reviewed its risk registers, internal
reviewed its earlier megatrend analysis through management strategy papers, company policies, and international
interview and confirmed that the nine megatrends i dentified reporting standards to help it identify impacts, risk and
in 2021 remain relevant to CLP and its underlying opportunities conceivably material to CLP’s current and future
strategic objectives. prospects. The process undertaken was evidence-based.
In relation to these megatrends, senior management
from various Group functions and Business Units were
The megatrends impacting CLP
Identify impacts, risks and opportunities from a broad range of internal stakeholders from CLP’s middle
and senior management, a review on megatrends to r eflect
To identify sustainability-related impacts, risks and CLP’s current operating context, and a review of the latest
opportunities (IROs), CLP conducted a comprehensive analysis reporting standards. CLP identified a total of 69 IROs, and
of various internal and external sources. These included CLP grouped them under the nine megatrends most likely to affect
strategy and risk documentation, interviews collating views CLP’s current business and operating environment.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 31

--- Page 32 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Governance Risk management Stakeholder management Materiality The materiality matrix
assessment process
‘Impact materiality’ refers to significant positive or negative After evaluating for magnitude/severity and likelihood, 49
impacts on people, the economy and the environment, IROs were assessed as ‘High’ or ‘Extreme’ and therefore
including impacts on human rights, based on the GRI d efinition. material. Among them, 26 were sustainability-related fi nancial
‘Financial materiality’ refers to sustainability-related risks or risks (18) and opportunities (8), and 23 were stakeholder
opportunities that could reasonably be expected to affect the impacts (10 negative, 13 positive). All material topics have both
Group’s cash flows, access to finance or cost of capital in the stakeholder impact and financial implications for the Group.
short, medium and long term, as per the IFRS S1 standard. The summary of prioritised sustainability-related impacts,
Sustainability-related financial disclosure refers to disclosing risks and opportunities discloses 51 IROs with 49 high or
material information about these risks and opportunities extreme IROs, as well as 2 medium IROs.
to investors. Information is material if omitting, misstating
or obscuring it could reasonably be expected to i nfluence It is important to note that CLP’s methodology for
investment decisions. assessing sustainability-related materiality aligns with
and informs future sustainability-related strategy and
Assess and validate impacts, risks and opportunities reporting. In addition, this materiality assessment and
the risk management processes have been more closely
CLP continued to apply the assessment methodology by integrated. CLP's risk management process takes into account
considering the severity and likelihood of risk, and the the identified material topics which are determined through
benefit and likelihood of opportunities. Each impact, risk comprehensive annual materiality assessments.
and opportunity was assessed as either negative or positive,
actual or potential (based on the latest GRI 3: Material Topics The assessment process was carried out by a working
2021 guidance). In 2023, additional considerations such as group of internal and external materiality experts, with
time horizon (short-term, medium-term and long-term) and participation from CLP’s Group Sustainability, Group Risk
position in the value chain (upstream, own operation and Management, Investor Relations and Corporate Affairs teams.
downstream) were introduced in accordance with the IFRS The assessment outcomes were refined and validated by the
S1 standard. Sustainability Executive Committee and endorsed by the CLP
Holdings Sustainability Committee.
To finalise the assessment phase, the significance of each
negative impact or financial risk was evaluated for its severity
and likelihood. The methodology incorporated the latest GRI
guidance, the ISO 31000 Risk Management Standard, and
CLP’s existing Group Risk Management Framework. A similar
methodology was devised to assess the significance of each
positive impact and financial opportunity, considering the
benefit and likelihood of each opportunity.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 32

--- Page 33 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Governance Risk management Stakeholder management Materiality The materiality matrix
assessment process
The materiality matrix
The materiality assessment results are summarised in the materiality matrix below, showing the relationships between
megatrends, material topics and relevant sub-topics. The IFRS S1 disclosure requirements, including time horizon and position of
the value chain, were incorporated in the results for the first time.
GRI reference: 3-2
For optimal user experience in navigating CLP's financially and impact material topics and sub-topics, please view the
interactive materiality matrix online
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 33

--- Page 34 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Governance Risk management Stakeholder management Materiality The materiality matrix
assessment process
Summary of prioritised sustainability-related impacts, risks and opportunities
CLP actively manages and responds to the sustainability-related impacts, risks and opportunities summarised in the table below. The latest materiality assessment
Upstream Own operations Downstream Short-term Medium-term Long-term
results also inform the Group's business strategy and integrate into the broader risk management process.
Material Topic Sub-topic Megatrend Impacts, risks and opportunities Value Time CLP's Response Relevant
chain horizon1 stakeholders
Transition to Acting as a trusted Financial opportunity: Carbon markets will play a key role in the decarbonisation of CLP’s current approach is to use credible carbon offsets as a last resort to offset value chain emissions, but Capital providers,
net zero partner in the clean hard-to-abate sectors of the economy and in achieving in our collective net-zero only after having reached a decarbonisation rate aligned with a 1.5°C pathway. The Group remains focused Partners
energy transition ambition. Development of a pipeline of carbon offsets would represent both a on reducing direct emissions from its operations by transitioning to lower-carbon technologies.
commercial opportunity and a useful asset for CLP’s own net zero ambitions.
Financial risk: Failure to meet investor expectations that CLP acts in line with CLP continued to engage capital providers on the Group’s efforts on decarbonisation. In 2023, CLP Capital providers,
environmental regulations and in the best interests of the community and the completed its financing activities in a timely and orderly manner to support the business’s continued growth Partners
environment may risk CLP's reputation with investors and become a barrier to and development.
raising capital.
Financial risk: Potential changes in energy market regulations may constrain CLP’s CLP works closely with policymakers in its operating markets to support their objectives through business Capital providers,
financial resources and weaken its ability to invest in zero carbon energy and new activities designed to meet local circumstances. Partners
business models, undermining its competitiveness, reputation and investability.
Investing in zero- Financial opportunity: Over the life of the assets, the cost of nuclear power generation Guangdong Daya Bay Nuclear Power Station, in which CLP has a 25% equity interest, meets around one-third Capital providers,
carbon energy is comparable with that of fossil-fuel electricity generation. By renewing/expanding its of the electricity demand of CLP Power’s customers in Hong Kong. CLP also has a 17% equity interest in Customers,
infrastructure nuclear energy infrastructure, CLP could lower the cost of energy production, while also Yangjiang Nuclear Power Station and continues to explore further opportunities to invest in the sector. Partners
supporting decarbonisation.
Financial opportunity: Investments into battery projects to meet energy storage CLP is planning battery projects in Hong Kong, Mainland China and Australia as energy storage is key to Partners
requirements of renewable energy systems, at both household (for rooftop solar) and bolstering supply reliability.
industrial (>100MW) scales.
Financial opportunity: War in Ukraine has brought energy security to the fore, which CLP has continued to focus on investments in the development of renewable energy, transmission systems Capital providers,
could lead to a faster development of renewables to replace gas in some markets. and energy storage systems in its markets including Hong Kong, Mainland China, Australia and India. Customers,
CLP can benefit from its investment in renewables and firming capacity to support Partners
long-term decarbonisation while maintaining energy security.
Positive impact: Investment in the development of a circular economy around existing CLP is dedicated to driving the transition towards a circular economy, recognising its ability to address waste Capital providers,
and future energy infrastructure (e.g. the recycling/remanufacture of wind turbine and pollution problems, and tackling climate change and biodiversity loss. In pursuit of this goal, CLP engages Partners
blades), including the development of active targets to drive transformation. and partners with stakeholders to further explore the integration of circularity principles into its operations
and supply chain.
Positive impact: Leverage growing public support (in Hong Kong and overseas) for For the past 30 years, CLP has been an investor and off-taker of nuclear energy. In 2023, nuclear energy Customers,
nuclear energy as part of a sustainable energy mix, including an extension of existing constituted 32% of CLP’s fuel mix in Hong Kong, with natural gas accounting for 49% and coal for 19%. CLP will Partners
plants' life (e.g. at Daya Bay) or investment in new nuclear power plants to support the maintain ongoing discussions with government and industry players to explore the possibility of importing
development of a larger share of zero-carbon electricity for customers. more nuclear energy through regional cooperation.
Negative impact: Cost associated with phasing out coal-fired power plants could impact CLP actively engages in research partnerships and collaborates with leading utility companies, international Capital providers
investment in renewable energy and delay progress in achieving the decarbonisation organisations and research institutes to support the Group's decarbonisation plan.
goals set out in CLP's Climate Vision 2050.
1 Time horizon is defined as 0-1 year as short-term; 1-5 years as medium-term; and 5+ years as long-term, to align with CLP's operating environment.
For example, business and financial planning, risk management and climate pattern changes.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 34

--- Page 35 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Governance Risk management Stakeholder management Materiality The materiality matrix
assessment process
Summary of prioritised sustainability-related impacts, risks and opportunities
CLP actively manages and responds to the sustainability-related impacts, risks and opportunities summarised in the table below. The latest materiality assessment
Upstream Own operations Downstream Short-term Medium-term Long-term
results also inform the Group's business strategy and integrate into the broader risk management process.
Material Topic Sub-topic Megatrend Impacts, risks and opportunities Value Time CLP's Response Relevant
chain horizon1 stakeholders
Transition to Acting as a trusted Financial opportunity: Carbon markets will play a key role in the decarbonisation of CLP’s current approach is to use credible carbon offsets as a last resort to offset value chain emissions, but Capital providers,
net zero partner in the clean hard-to-abate sectors of the economy and in achieving in our collective net-zero only after having reached a decarbonisation rate aligned with a 1.5°C pathway. The Group remains focused Partners
energy transition ambition. Development of a pipeline of carbon offsets would represent both a on reducing direct emissions from its operations by transitioning to lower-carbon technologies.
commercial opportunity and a useful asset for CLP’s own net zero ambitions.
Financial risk: Failure to meet investor expectations that CLP acts in line with CLP continued to engage capital providers on the Group’s efforts on decarbonisation. In 2023, CLP Capital providers,
environmental regulations and in the best interests of the community and the completed its financing activities in a timely and orderly manner to support the business’s continued growth Partners
environment may risk CLP's reputation with investors and become a barrier to and development.
raising capital.
Financial risk: Potential changes in energy market regulations may constrain CLP’s CLP works closely with policymakers in its operating markets to support their objectives through business Capital providers,
financial resources and weaken its ability to invest in zero carbon energy and new activities designed to meet local circumstances. Partners
business models, undermining its competitiveness, reputation and investability.
Investing in zero- Financial opportunity: Over the life of the assets, the cost of nuclear power generation Guangdong Daya Bay Nuclear Power Station, in which CLP has a 25% equity interest, meets around one-third Capital providers,
carbon energy is comparable with that of fossil-fuel electricity generation. By renewing/expanding its of the electricity demand of CLP Power’s customers in Hong Kong. CLP also has a 17% equity interest in Customers,
infrastructure nuclear energy infrastructure, CLP could lower the cost of energy production, while also Yangjiang Nuclear Power Station and continues to explore further opportunities to invest in the sector. Partners
supporting decarbonisation.
Financial opportunity: Investments into battery projects to meet energy storage CLP is planning battery projects in Hong Kong, Mainland China and Australia as energy storage is key to Partners
requirements of renewable energy systems, at both household (for rooftop solar) and bolstering supply reliability.
industrial (>100MW) scales.
Financial opportunity: War in Ukraine has brought energy security to the fore, which CLP has continued to focus on investments in the development of renewable energy, transmission systems Capital providers,
could lead to a faster development of renewables to replace gas in some markets. and energy storage systems in its markets including Hong Kong, Mainland China, Australia and India. Customers,
CLP can benefit from its investment in renewables and firming capacity to support Partners
long-term decarbonisation while maintaining energy security.
Positive impact: Investment in the development of a circular economy around existing CLP is dedicated to driving the transition towards a circular economy, recognising its ability to address waste Capital providers,
and future energy infrastructure (e.g. the recycling/remanufacture of wind turbine and pollution problems, and tackling climate change and biodiversity loss. In pursuit of this goal, CLP engages Partners
blades), including the development of active targets to drive transformation. and partners with stakeholders to further explore the integration of circularity principles into its operations
and supply chain.
Positive impact: Leverage growing public support (in Hong Kong and overseas) for For the past 30 years, CLP has been an investor and off-taker of nuclear energy. In 2023, nuclear energy Customers,
nuclear energy as part of a sustainable energy mix, including an extension of existing constituted 32% of CLP’s fuel mix in Hong Kong, with natural gas accounting for 49% and coal for 19%. CLP will Partners
plants' life (e.g. at Daya Bay) or investment in new nuclear power plants to support the maintain ongoing discussions with government and industry players to explore the possibility of importing
development of a larger share of zero-carbon electricity for customers. more nuclear energy through regional cooperation.
Negative impact: Cost associated with phasing out coal-fired power plants could impact CLP actively engages in research partnerships and collaborates with leading utility companies, international Capital providers
investment in renewable energy and delay progress in achieving the decarbonisation organisations and research institutes to support the Group's decarbonisation plan.
goals set out in CLP's Climate Vision 2050.
1 Time horizon is defined as 0-1 year as short-term; 1-5 years as medium-term; and 5+ years as long-term, to align with CLP's operating environment.
For example, business and financial planning, risk management and climate pattern changes.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 35

--- Page 36 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Governance Risk management Stakeholder management Materiality The materiality matrix
assessment process
CLP actively manages and responds to the sustainability-related impacts, risks and opportunities summarised in the table below. The latest materiality assessment
Upstream Own operations Downstream Short-term Medium-term Long-term
results also inform the Group's business strategy and integrate into the broader risk management process.
Material Topic Sub-topic Megatrend Impacts, risks and opportunities Value Time CLP's Response Relevant
chain horizon1 stakeholders
Transition to Reducing Positive impact: Achieving CLP's proposed phase-out of coal-fired power plants by CLP maintains its commitment to phase out coal-based assets before 2040 and cease the development of Capital providers,
net zero environmental 2040 will reduce operational GHG emissions and air pollution. new coal-fired power plants in CLP’s portfolio. In Hong Kong, coal-fired generation units at Castle Peak A Customers
(continued) impacts Power Station are being gradually retired, while the new 600MW combined-cycle gas turbine D2 generation
unit at Black Point Power Station will assist in maintaining a dependable, low-carbon power supply alongside
the 550MW D1 unit.
Negative impact: A potential delay in the closure of CLP's coal-fired plants could impact For Hong Kong, CLP Power continues to engage relevant stakeholders and carefully plan for its engineering Capital providers
the Group's ability to meet carbon reduction targets. design and execution to ensure a timely delivery of combined-cycle gas turbine D2 generation unit at Black
Point, Hong Kong Offshore LNG Terminal, Clean Energy Transmission Network and Advanced Metering
Infrastructure. The closure of other coal-fired plants in the CLP portfolio is in progress and progress is
closely monitored.
Negative impact: Any future underinvestment in commercially viable renewable energy Investment in research and development is a key approach to identify viable energy solutions to accelerate Capital providers
technologies could impact CLP's ability to decrease GHG emissions and impede progress the energy transition and minimise environmental impacts. CLP continues to collaborate with different
toward the goals in CLP's Climate Vision 2050. parties to assess the feasibility and capability of new opportunities.
Responding to Financial risk: Evolving net-zero policies internationally may push CLP to accelerate its CLP continues to contribute to discussions with policymakers in its operating regions on climate policies and Capital providers,
evolving coal-fired power plant closures, forcing it to bear the transition costs (such as revenue, monitor related regulatory developments. Partners
regulatory decommissioning and transition costs) ahead of schedule.
landscapes
Financial risk: Failing to respond to regulatory changes in different geographies means CLP is accelerating the pace of decarbonisation in line with its Climate Vision 2050, which was recently Capital providers,
CLP could face legal and regulatory sanction, a diminishment in government trust and revised with a strengthened GHG emissions intensity target for 2030. Customers,
thus reduced prospects for partnership, and a potential loss of market share. Partners
Navigating Financial risk: : International capital flows in and out of open economies such as Hong CLP maintained good access to diversified, sustainable sources of cost-effective funding throughout a year of Capital providers
geopolitical Kong may be sensitive to geopolitical developments, potentially affecting CLP's ability economic uncertainty and interest rate volatility, as the Group’s strong financial position continues to provide
instability to raise capital and its share price and requiring the Group to further diversify its solid foundations for decarbonisation investments.
financing channels.
Energy growth Creating new Financial opportunity: CLP's support of the electrification of the economy will help it CLPe is expanding its partnerships in EV charging in the Greater Bay Area including Hong Kong. Customers
opportunities revenue streams retain and attract customers (e.g. EV owners and EV fleet operators) and establish it as EnergyAustralia is also increasing the scope of its services to cater to rising demand for EV
as other an enabler of the Hong Kong Government's net zero plans. charging infrastructure.
sectors electrify
Positive impact: COP28 has called for a global effort to triple renewable energy capacity CLP has been exploring new business opportunities in energy services, including EV charging infrastructure. Customers,
globally and double the global average annual rate of energy efficiency improvements For example, CLPe and AVIS Hong Kong announced the launch of Hong Kong’s first Electric Vehicles-as-a- Partners
by 2030, This presents CLP with opportunities to expand into new business lines and Service in 2023, offering cost-effective options for businesses to switch to green motoring and helping Hong
establish joint ventures in adjacent sectors, such as road transport (e.g. EV charging Kong to achieve its goal of zero vehicle emissions.
infrastructure), and energy services.
Deepening CLP’s Financial risk: Without timely investments in decarbonisation infrastructure and CLP’s investments in low-carbon energy infrastructure and business models are generating growth Capital providers,
value proposition technology, CLP's growth potential in core markets will be limited. CLP's advantage as opportunities across its markets. Customers
with partners an integrated utility in Hong Kong may be difficult to replicate in other energy markets
with different regulations.
1 Time horizon is defined as 0-1 year as short-term; 1-5 years as medium-term; and 5+ years as long-term, to align with CLP's operating environment.
For example, business and financial planning, risk management and climate pattern changes.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 36

--- Page 37 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Governance Risk management Stakeholder management Materiality The materiality matrix
assessment process
CLP actively manages and responds to the sustainability-related impacts, risks and opportunities summarised in the table below. The latest materiality assessment
Upstream Own operations Downstream Short-term Medium-term Long-term
results also inform the Group's business strategy and integrate into the broader risk management process.
Material Topic Sub-topic Megatrend Impacts, risks and opportunities Value Time CLP's Response Relevant
chain horizon1 stakeholders
Transition to Reducing Positive impact: Achieving CLP's proposed phase-out of coal-fired power plants by CLP maintains its commitment to phase out coal-based assets before 2040 and cease the development of Capital providers,
net zero environmental 2040 will reduce operational GHG emissions and air pollution. new coal-fired power plants in CLP’s portfolio. In Hong Kong, coal-fired generation units at Castle Peak A Customers
(continued) impacts Power Station are being gradually retired, while the new 600MW combined-cycle gas turbine D2 generation
unit at Black Point Power Station will assist in maintaining a dependable, low-carbon power supply alongside
the 550MW D1 unit.
Negative impact: A potential delay in the closure of CLP's coal-fired plants could impact For Hong Kong, CLP Power continues to engage relevant stakeholders and carefully plan for its engineering Capital providers
the Group's ability to meet carbon reduction targets. design and execution to ensure a timely delivery of combined-cycle gas turbine D2 generation unit at Black
Point, Hong Kong Offshore LNG Terminal, Clean Energy Transmission Network and Advanced Metering
Infrastructure. The closure of other coal-fired plants in the CLP portfolio is in progress and progress is
closely monitored.
Negative impact: Any future underinvestment in commercially viable renewable energy Investment in research and development is a key approach to identify viable energy solutions to accelerate Capital providers
technologies could impact CLP's ability to decrease GHG emissions and impede progress the energy transition and minimise environmental impacts. CLP continues to collaborate with different
toward the goals in CLP's Climate Vision 2050. parties to assess the feasibility and capability of new opportunities.
Responding to Financial risk: Evolving net-zero policies internationally may push CLP to accelerate its CLP continues to contribute to discussions with policymakers in its operating regions on climate policies and Capital providers,
evolving coal-fired power plant closures, forcing it to bear the transition costs (such as revenue, monitor related regulatory developments. Partners
regulatory decommissioning and transition costs) ahead of schedule.
landscapes
Financial risk: Failing to respond to regulatory changes in different geographies means CLP is accelerating the pace of decarbonisation in line with its Climate Vision 2050, which was recently Capital providers,
CLP could face legal and regulatory sanction, a diminishment in government trust and revised with a strengthened GHG emissions intensity target for 2030. Customers,
thus reduced prospects for partnership, and a potential loss of market share. Partners
Navigating Financial risk: : International capital flows in and out of open economies such as Hong CLP maintained good access to diversified, sustainable sources of cost-effective funding throughout a year of Capital providers
geopolitical Kong may be sensitive to geopolitical developments, potentially affecting CLP's ability economic uncertainty and interest rate volatility, as the Group’s strong financial position continues to provide
instability to raise capital and its share price and requiring the Group to further diversify its solid foundations for decarbonisation investments.
financing channels.
Energy growth Creating new Financial opportunity: CLP's support of the electrification of the economy will help it CLPe is expanding its partnerships in EV charging in the Greater Bay Area including Hong Kong. Customers
opportunities revenue streams retain and attract customers (e.g. EV owners and EV fleet operators) and establish it as EnergyAustralia is also increasing the scope of its services to cater to rising demand for EV
as other an enabler of the Hong Kong Government's net zero plans. charging infrastructure.
sectors electrify
Positive impact: COP28 has called for a global effort to triple renewable energy capacity CLP has been exploring new business opportunities in energy services, including EV charging infrastructure. Customers,
globally and double the global average annual rate of energy efficiency improvements For example, CLPe and AVIS Hong Kong announced the launch of Hong Kong’s first Electric Vehicles-as-a- Partners
by 2030, This presents CLP with opportunities to expand into new business lines and Service in 2023, offering cost-effective options for businesses to switch to green motoring and helping Hong
establish joint ventures in adjacent sectors, such as road transport (e.g. EV charging Kong to achieve its goal of zero vehicle emissions.
infrastructure), and energy services.
Deepening CLP’s Financial risk: Without timely investments in decarbonisation infrastructure and CLP’s investments in low-carbon energy infrastructure and business models are generating growth Capital providers,
value proposition technology, CLP's growth potential in core markets will be limited. CLP's advantage as opportunities across its markets. Customers
with partners an integrated utility in Hong Kong may be difficult to replicate in other energy markets
with different regulations.
1 Time horizon is defined as 0-1 year as short-term; 1-5 years as medium-term; and 5+ years as long-term, to align with CLP's operating environment.
For example, business and financial planning, risk management and climate pattern changes.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 37

--- Page 38 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Governance Risk management Stakeholder management Materiality The materiality matrix
assessment process
CLP actively manages and responds to the sustainability-related impacts, risks and opportunities summarised in the table below. The latest materiality assessment
Upstream Own operations Downstream Short-term Medium-term Long-term
results also inform the Group's business strategy and integrate into the broader risk management process.
Material Topic Sub-topic Megatrend Impacts, risks and opportunities Value Time CLP's Response Relevant
chain horizon1 stakeholders
Energy growth Deploying Financial opportunity: The provision of expertise, products and services including smart CLP China, CLPe, EnergyAustralia and Apraava Energy are offering a widening range of energy services and Capital providers,
opportunities customer-facing grid technology, to enhance customers' energy efficiency may enhance CLP's market solutions to help customers to decarbonise, generating new business opportunities. Customers
(continued) energy solutions share and raise revenues through new, innovative product/service lines.
Financial opportunity: New customer-facing energy solutions (e.g. micro-grids and Outside of Hong Kong, CLP keeps pace with evolving demand by providing smart energy services that cater Customers,
smart meters) and Energy-as-a-Service business models may potentially be developed to customers’ increasing appetite for low-carbon energy solutions. Partners
into scalable and profitable businesses for CLP.
Developing Financial risk: CLP’s digitalisation agenda could be derailed by cost and time over-runs, Continued investments in digitalisation are enabling the Group to offer more technology-enabled services to Customers
Energy-as-a- an inability to scale, disruptions caused by imperfect implementation, and/or failure to support customers to decarbonise, while enhancing operational efficiencies.
Service meet customer expectations.
business models
Energy security Providing Financial risk: With energy affordability a continued concern for Hong Kong customers CLP Power mitigated the impact of fuel cost volatility and eased the tariff pressure on customers in 2023 Customers
and reliability customers and the Government, CLP may face negative sentiment and regulatory uncertainty in through a series of measures, including enhancing the efficiency of generation and making the most of
with reliable the longer-term. existing gas reserves.
and reasonably-
priced energy
Positive impact: CLP can provide expertise and access to products and services (e.g., As an example to help customers improve energy efficiency in Hong Kong, CLP Power has connected Customers
smart meters, PV panels) to help customers use energy more efficiently, helping them 2.23 million smart meters for around 80% of its residential and small-to-medium enterprise customers and
save money and lowering emissions. aims to finish installing smart meters for these customers by 2025.
Negative impact: A failure to communicate with customers ahead of disruptions caused For example, in Hong Kong CLP Power ensures effective communication with customers during power Customers
by extreme weather may undermine CLP's reputation as a reliable energy provider, outages and provides an online form for customers to report power outages conveniently.
resulting in a loss of trust.
Navigating Financial risk: Deglobalisation and geopolitical tensions could result in restrictions on CLP relies on its diversified procurement strategy to avoid the worst of the impact of ongoing Partners
geopolitical trade with the Mainland. These could impact CLP’s ability to procure semiconductors geopolitical uncertainty.
instability and other critical technologies, as well as capital, commodities, talent and other drivers
of business continuity and success.
Financial risk: Geopolitical tensions could impact CLP’s operating environment. To maintain supply chain resilience, CLP maintains a sufficient inventory level and access to multiple supply Partners
Potential impacts include supply chain disruptions, increased business costs, currency sources, while forging close collaboration with suppliers.
fluctuations and adverse changes in international trade policies.
Financial risk: A lapse in the security of fuel supply in some markets could tarnish CLP’s CLP adopts a diversified fuel mix, optimising its procurement contracting processes, balancing the use of Capital providers,
reputation due to deteriorated supply reliability and could lead to a significant loss in term and spot contracts and maintaining multiple fuel sources so as not to be reliant on a single source Customers,
revenue hurting CLP’s financial performance. or supplier. Partners
A safe, future- Attracting and Financial risk: Failing to develop the talent and ways of working required for a digitally CLP further strengthened the recruitment of people with talent and expertise in engineering, digital Capital providers,
ready workforce developing diverse enabled, low-carbon future will hamper CLP’s ability to meet its strategic objectives and technologies and customer service in Hong Kong and Mainland China in 2023. Our people
future talent expand capabilities in new areas.
and capabilities
Positive impact: Training provided to upskill employees enhances CLP's human To foster collaboration and expand opportunities for employees’ career development and industry skill Our people
capital and contributes to employee satisfaction, which correlates strongly with enhancement, CLP has strengthened partnerships with institutions in Hong Kong, Mainland China and
improved performance. overseas through various partnership programmes via the CLP Power Academy.
1 Time horizon is defined as 0-1 year as short-term; 1-5 years as medium-term; and 5+ years as long-term, to align with CLP's operating environment.
For example, business and financial planning, risk management and climate pattern changes.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 38

--- Page 39 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Governance Risk management Stakeholder management Materiality The materiality matrix
assessment process
CLP actively manages and responds to the sustainability-related impacts, risks and opportunities summarised in the table below. The latest materiality assessment
Upstream Own operations Downstream Short-term Medium-term Long-term
results also inform the Group's business strategy and integrate into the broader risk management process.
Material Topic Sub-topic Megatrend Impacts, risks and opportunities Value Time CLP's Response Relevant
chain horizon1 stakeholders
Energy growth Deploying Financial opportunity: The provision of expertise, products and services including smart CLP China, CLPe, EnergyAustralia and Apraava Energy are offering a widening range of energy services and Capital providers,
opportunities customer-facing grid technology, to enhance customers' energy efficiency may enhance CLP's market solutions to help customers to decarbonise, generating new business opportunities. Customers
(continued) energy solutions share and raise revenues through new, innovative product/service lines.
Financial opportunity: New customer-facing energy solutions (e.g. micro-grids and Outside of Hong Kong, CLP keeps pace with evolving demand by providing smart energy services that cater Customers,
smart meters) and Energy-as-a-Service business models may potentially be developed to customers’ increasing appetite for low-carbon energy solutions. Partners
into scalable and profitable businesses for CLP.
Developing Financial risk: CLP’s digitalisation agenda could be derailed by cost and time over-runs, Continued investments in digitalisation are enabling the Group to offer more technology-enabled services to Customers
Energy-as-a- an inability to scale, disruptions caused by imperfect implementation, and/or failure to support customers to decarbonise, while enhancing operational efficiencies.
Service meet customer expectations.
business models
Energy security Providing Financial risk: With energy affordability a continued concern for Hong Kong customers CLP Power mitigated the impact of fuel cost volatility and eased the tariff pressure on customers in 2023 Customers
and reliability customers and the Government, CLP may face negative sentiment and regulatory uncertainty in through a series of measures, including enhancing the efficiency of generation and making the most of
with reliable the longer-term. existing gas reserves.
and reasonably-
priced energy
Positive impact: CLP can provide expertise and access to products and services (e.g., As an example to help customers improve energy efficiency in Hong Kong, CLP Power has connected Customers
smart meters, PV panels) to help customers use energy more efficiently, helping them 2.23 million smart meters for around 80% of its residential and small-to-medium enterprise customers and
save money and lowering emissions. aims to finish installing smart meters for these customers by 2025.
Negative impact: A failure to communicate with customers ahead of disruptions caused For example, in Hong Kong CLP Power ensures effective communication with customers during power Customers
by extreme weather may undermine CLP's reputation as a reliable energy provider, outages and provides an online form for customers to report power outages conveniently.
resulting in a loss of trust.
Navigating Financial risk: Deglobalisation and geopolitical tensions could result in restrictions on CLP relies on its diversified procurement strategy to avoid the worst of the impact of ongoing Partners
geopolitical trade with the Mainland. These could impact CLP’s ability to procure semiconductors geopolitical uncertainty.
instability and other critical technologies, as well as capital, commodities, talent and other drivers
of business continuity and success.
Financial risk: Geopolitical tensions could impact CLP’s operating environment. To maintain supply chain resilience, CLP maintains a sufficient inventory level and access to multiple supply Partners
Potential impacts include supply chain disruptions, increased business costs, currency sources, while forging close collaboration with suppliers.
fluctuations and adverse changes in international trade policies.
Financial risk: A lapse in the security of fuel supply in some markets could tarnish CLP’s CLP adopts a diversified fuel mix, optimising its procurement contracting processes, balancing the use of Capital providers,
reputation due to deteriorated supply reliability and could lead to a significant loss in term and spot contracts and maintaining multiple fuel sources so as not to be reliant on a single source Customers,
revenue hurting CLP’s financial performance. or supplier. Partners
A safe, future- Attracting and Financial risk: Failing to develop the talent and ways of working required for a digitally CLP further strengthened the recruitment of people with talent and expertise in engineering, digital Capital providers,
ready workforce developing diverse enabled, low-carbon future will hamper CLP’s ability to meet its strategic objectives and technologies and customer service in Hong Kong and Mainland China in 2023. Our people
future talent expand capabilities in new areas.
and capabilities
Positive impact: Training provided to upskill employees enhances CLP's human To foster collaboration and expand opportunities for employees’ career development and industry skill Our people
capital and contributes to employee satisfaction, which correlates strongly with enhancement, CLP has strengthened partnerships with institutions in Hong Kong, Mainland China and
improved performance. overseas through various partnership programmes via the CLP Power Academy.
1 Time horizon is defined as 0-1 year as short-term; 1-5 years as medium-term; and 5+ years as long-term, to align with CLP's operating environment.
For example, business and financial planning, risk management and climate pattern changes.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 39

--- Page 40 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Governance Risk management Stakeholder management Materiality The materiality matrix
assessment process
CLP actively manages and responds to the sustainability-related impacts, risks and opportunities summarised in the table below. The latest materiality assessment
Upstream Own operations Downstream Short-term Medium-term Long-term
results also inform the Group's business strategy and integrate into the broader risk management process.
Material Topic Sub-topic Megatrend Impacts, risks and opportunities Value Time CLP's Response Relevant
chain horizon1 stakeholders
A safe, future- Attracting and Negative impact: Younger employees with the skills required to facilitate CLP's CLP stepped-up efforts to expose high-potential team members to energy transition developments, with Our people
ready workforce developing diverse opportunities in digitisation and the low-carbon energy transition may have different study tours now embedded in every development programme and over 100 team members participating
( continued) future talent and expectations compared to previous generations, which requires CLP to hire and train in 2023. CLP also introduced a Digital Graduate Programme and expanded opportunities for graduates
capabilities executives with the contemporary leadership skills to manage them effectively. and interns.
(continued)
Helping our Positive impact: People policies that acknowledge different life stages and offer CLP is committed to developing an engaged and high-performing workforce, providing flexible working Our people
people succeed employees greater flexibility can increase social mobility, remove barriers to career arrangements and benefits to support employees through all life stages. CLP commenced implementing
progression, and enhance productivity and morale. a refreshed approach to performance management, aimed at enhancing feedback to team members to
support their development and increasing performance differentiation.
Negative impact: As CLP decarbonises its operations, a 'just transition' for its employees CLP supports all its people to succeed and thrive in the period of change brought about by the energy Our people
— through retraining, repurposing or a supported transition into new roles — will be transition. EnergyAustralia established a programme to prepare for the announced 2028 closure of Yallourn,
essential. Failure to do so may negatively impact their economic and personal wellbeing, including redeployment of head office team members to business-based roles to support decarbonisation
and those of their dependents. projects and digital initiatives.
Embedding agile Financial risk: A lack of organisational agility and entrepreneurial culture may limit CLP’s CLP updated its system of leadership competencies in 2023 to reflect the capabilities and behaviours Capital providers,
and innovative ability to explore emerging energy solutions and new business models, and to compete required to succeed in the evolving business environment. Customers,
ways of against disruptive new market entrants. Our people
working, mindsets
and behaviours
Positive impact: CLP can continue to shift from a hierarchical culture to one that CLP continues to make progress on its multi-year “new ways of working” journey through a comprehensive Our people
encourages new ideas and debate as part of corporate decision-making, with the aim of refresh of its values and behaviours to guide team members to drive business success. To enable more
enhancing an accountable, collaborative, inclusive and safe-to-speak-up culture. digitalised and efficient ways of working, business processes continue to be streamlined and modernised.
Negative impact: Intensive competition, skills shortages, and changing employee Graduate and internship opportunities were expanded, including introduction of a Digital Graduate Our people
preferences on the relative attractiveness of the utilities sector could make it harder Programme in Hong Kong.
for CLP to attract and retain top talent in areas requiring specialised expertise, such as
nuclear and renewable energy.
Promoting Financial risk: High safety incident rates or fatalities could lead to legal liabilities and CLP further strengthened workplace safety in 2023 based on its multi-year health, safety and environment Partners,
workforce safety reputational harm. improvement strategy, a comprehensive blueprint that emphasises the importance of a proactive approach Our people
and wellbeing to make work processes safer.
Positive impact: CLP can leverage AI to improve network diagnostics and deploy At EnergyAustralia, the data team utilised Artificial Intelligence (AI) to troll through approximately 2.5 million Our people
robotics to enhance the safety and efficiency of maintenance operations, helping make calls, unearthing a new data source that enables the Company to analyse these calls. The analysis revealed
operations safer for employees. that over half of these calls contained profanity and mistreatment towards staff. This revelation ignited a
substantial effort to bolster support for employees.
Negative impact: Failing to provide a safe working environment could undermine the To help CLP's people integrate wellbeing into work, CLP organised a series of “Wellbeing as a Leadership Skill” Our people
physical and mental wellbeing, safety and wellbeing of employees and contractors. workshops, covering wellbeing, demands and resources, resilience and various tools for leaders to support
their teams. Also, CLP provided an online digital wellbeing platform for employees to support and arouse
awareness of individual health. Additonally, CLP has commenced identifying psychosocial risk factors within
the business units, to help address and support a psychologically safe work environment. The principles of
human and organisational performance further bolster this approach.
1 Time horizon is defined as 0-1 year as short-term; 1-5 years as medium-term; and 5+ years as long-term, to align with CLP's operating environment.
For example, business and financial planning, risk management and climate pattern changes.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 40

--- Page 41 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Governance Risk management Stakeholder management Materiality The materiality matrix
assessment process
CLP actively manages and responds to the sustainability-related impacts, risks and opportunities summarised in the table below. The latest materiality assessment
Upstream Own operations Downstream Short-term Medium-term Long-term
results also inform the Group's business strategy and integrate into the broader risk management process.
Material Topic Sub-topic Megatrend Impacts, risks and opportunities Value Time CLP's Response Relevant
chain horizon1 stakeholders
A safe, future- Attracting and Negative impact: Younger employees with the skills required to facilitate CLP's CLP stepped-up efforts to expose high-potential team members to energy transition developments, with Our people
ready workforce developing diverse opportunities in digitisation and the low-carbon energy transition may have different study tours now embedded in every development programme and over 100 team members participating
( continued) future talent and expectations compared to previous generations, which requires CLP to hire and train in 2023. CLP also introduced a Digital Graduate Programme and expanded opportunities for graduates
capabilities executives with the contemporary leadership skills to manage them effectively. and interns.
(continued)
Helping our Positive impact: People policies that acknowledge different life stages and offer CLP is committed to developing an engaged and high-performing workforce, providing flexible working Our people
people succeed employees greater flexibility can increase social mobility, remove barriers to career arrangements and benefits to support employees through all life stages. CLP commenced implementing
progression, and enhance productivity and morale. a refreshed approach to performance management, aimed at enhancing feedback to team members to
support their development and increasing performance differentiation.
Negative impact: As CLP decarbonises its operations, a 'just transition' for its employees CLP supports all its people to succeed and thrive in the period of change brought about by the energy Our people
— through retraining, repurposing or a supported transition into new roles — will be transition. EnergyAustralia established a programme to prepare for the announced 2028 closure of Yallourn,
essential. Failure to do so may negatively impact their economic and personal wellbeing, including redeployment of head office team members to business-based roles to support decarbonisation
and those of their dependents. projects and digital initiatives.
Embedding agile Financial risk: A lack of organisational agility and entrepreneurial culture may limit CLP’s CLP updated its system of leadership competencies in 2023 to reflect the capabilities and behaviours Capital providers,
and innovative ability to explore emerging energy solutions and new business models, and to compete required to succeed in the evolving business environment. Customers,
ways of against disruptive new market entrants. Our people
working, mindsets
and behaviours
Positive impact: CLP can continue to shift from a hierarchical culture to one that CLP continues to make progress on its multi-year “new ways of working” journey through a comprehensive Our people
encourages new ideas and debate as part of corporate decision-making, with the aim of refresh of its values and behaviours to guide team members to drive business success. To enable more
enhancing an accountable, collaborative, inclusive and safe-to-speak-up culture. digitalised and efficient ways of working, business processes continue to be streamlined and modernised.
Negative impact: Intensive competition, skills shortages, and changing employee Graduate and internship opportunities were expanded, including introduction of a Digital Graduate Our people
preferences on the relative attractiveness of the utilities sector could make it harder Programme in Hong Kong.
for CLP to attract and retain top talent in areas requiring specialised expertise, such as
nuclear and renewable energy.
Promoting Financial risk: High safety incident rates or fatalities could lead to legal liabilities and CLP further strengthened workplace safety in 2023 based on its multi-year health, safety and environment Partners,
workforce safety reputational harm. improvement strategy, a comprehensive blueprint that emphasises the importance of a proactive approach Our people
and wellbeing to make work processes safer.
Positive impact: CLP can leverage AI to improve network diagnostics and deploy At EnergyAustralia, the data team utilised Artificial Intelligence (AI) to troll through approximately 2.5 million Our people
robotics to enhance the safety and efficiency of maintenance operations, helping make calls, unearthing a new data source that enables the Company to analyse these calls. The analysis revealed
operations safer for employees. that over half of these calls contained profanity and mistreatment towards staff. This revelation ignited a
substantial effort to bolster support for employees.
Negative impact: Failing to provide a safe working environment could undermine the To help CLP's people integrate wellbeing into work, CLP organised a series of “Wellbeing as a Leadership Skill” Our people
physical and mental wellbeing, safety and wellbeing of employees and contractors. workshops, covering wellbeing, demands and resources, resilience and various tools for leaders to support
their teams. Also, CLP provided an online digital wellbeing platform for employees to support and arouse
awareness of individual health. Additonally, CLP has commenced identifying psychosocial risk factors within
the business units, to help address and support a psychologically safe work environment. The principles of
human and organisational performance further bolster this approach.
1 Time horizon is defined as 0-1 year as short-term; 1-5 years as medium-term; and 5+ years as long-term, to align with CLP's operating environment.
For example, business and financial planning, risk management and climate pattern changes.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 41

--- Page 42 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Governance Risk management Stakeholder management Materiality The materiality matrix
assessment process
CLP actively manages and responds to the sustainability-related impacts, risks and opportunities summarised in the table below. The latest materiality assessment
Upstream Own operations Downstream Short-term Medium-term Long-term
results also inform the Group's business strategy and integrate into the broader risk management process.
Material Topic Sub-topic Megatrend Impacts, risks and opportunities Value Time CLP's Response Relevant
chain horizon1 stakeholders
Business resilience Building resilience Financial opportunity: AI and data analytic tools may be deployed to improve CLP’s CLP continued to upgrade its data analytics and AI capabilities as part of the Group’s ongoing Customers,
in the face data collection and analysis from across its operations, enabling better tracking of ESG- digitalisation efforts. Partners,
of climate change relevant data, such as energy consumption, waste management, employee wellbeing Our people
and evolving and community engagement, and supporting better decision-making and compliance
business with relevant regulation and policies.
environment
Financial risk: The potential changes to regulation and decentralisation of energy CLP continued to engage stakeholders including policymakers to build increased understanding of its Customers,
generation and transmission could impact CLP’s future revenue streams. business. The Group is accelerating the development of new energy services and business models to diversify Partners
from a traditional energy utility.
Financial risk: Physical risks to CLP’s physical infrastructure and operations resulting CLP continues to strengthen planning and mitigation measures to cope with the heightened risks of extreme Customers,
from climate change, including extreme temperatures, extreme weather events, weather events. Partners
increased rainfall, drought, flooding, and bushfires.
Financial risk: CLP’s hydro power plants located in areas of high water stress may Drought conditions in Yunnan province led to a reduction in output from Dali Yang_er Hydropower Station, Capital providers,
experience lower performance during periods of low rainfall. contributing to a HK$115 million impairment charge for the plant in 2023. Customers
Positive impact: CLP's capabilities in building high-quality energy infrastructure could To ensure a reliable, reasonably priced and sustainable supply of energy, CLP must address the challenges Community
help communities adapt to a hotter climate and support a more climate-resilient energy that natural resource constraints and extreme weather conditions pose to its physical assets. CLP conducted
grid system. asset-level physical climate risk assessments and continues to develop adaptation measures to enhance the
resilience of individual assets in each region.
Reinforcing cyber Financial risk: A major cyber-security breach could present a serious risk to CLP's CLP enhanced cybersecurity governance in 2023 and set up a new security operations centre in Hong Kong Customers,
resilience and financial position and reputation. to step up risk monitoring and strengthen response to incidents. Partners
data protection
Positive impact: CLP's investment in cybersecurity protections (including operational Group Security took the opportunity to upgrade its Security Operations Centre, enhance the cyber security Customers
technology security protocols, and specialised staff) can protect the data security of monitoring service for Operational Technology, and improve external support with a new Managed Security
customers and the power network they rely on. Service Provider. These changes collectively represent a significant uplift in CLP’s cyber security posture.
Negative impact: A successful cyber-attack on one of CLP's Operational Technologies CLP operates in an ever-evolving cyber security threat landscape. In response, Group Security established Customers
(OT) systems, or to a lesser extent its IT system, could affect power plant operations, a Cyber Security Governance and Risk Management function that is helping the wider Group to take
causing outages and disruption that adversely impact customers and communities. responsibility for cyber security risk management and be accountable for their decisions. CLP continually
monitors its IT systems and networks and stays alert to potential threats to its OT systems. If suspicious
activity is discovered in the OT network environments, immediate action is taken to investigate it and, if
necessary, isolate the threat and initiate recovery action.
1 Time horizon is defined as 0-1 year as short-term; 1-5 years as medium-term; and 5+ years as long-term, to align with CLP's operating environment.
For example, business and financial planning, risk management and climate pattern changes.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 42

--- Page 43 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Governance Risk management Stakeholder management Materiality The materiality matrix
assessment process
CLP actively manages and responds to the sustainability-related impacts, risks and opportunities summarised in the table below. The latest materiality assessment
Upstream Own operations Downstream Short-term Medium-term Long-term
results also inform the Group's business strategy and integrate into the broader risk management process.
Material Topic Sub-topic Megatrend Impacts, risks and opportunities Value Time CLP's Response Relevant
chain horizon1 stakeholders
Business resilience Building resilience Financial opportunity: AI and data analytic tools may be deployed to improve CLP’s CLP continued to upgrade its data analytics and AI capabilities as part of the Group’s ongoing Customers,
in the face data collection and analysis from across its operations, enabling better tracking of ESG- digitalisation efforts. Partners,
of climate change relevant data, such as energy consumption, waste management, employee wellbeing Our people
and evolving and community engagement, and supporting better decision-making and compliance
business with relevant regulation and policies.
environment
Financial risk: The potential changes to regulation and decentralisation of energy CLP continued to engage stakeholders including policymakers to build increased understanding of its Customers,
generation and transmission could impact CLP’s future revenue streams. business. The Group is accelerating the development of new energy services and business models to diversify Partners
from a traditional energy utility.
Financial risk: Physical risks to CLP’s physical infrastructure and operations resulting CLP continues to strengthen planning and mitigation measures to cope with the heightened risks of extreme Customers,
from climate change, including extreme temperatures, extreme weather events, weather events. Partners
increased rainfall, drought, flooding, and bushfires.
Financial risk: CLP’s hydro power plants located in areas of high water stress may Drought conditions in Yunnan province led to a reduction in output from Dali Yang_er Hydropower Station, Capital providers,
experience lower performance during periods of low rainfall. contributing to a HK$115 million impairment charge for the plant in 2023. Customers
Positive impact: CLP's capabilities in building high-quality energy infrastructure could To ensure a reliable, reasonably priced and sustainable supply of energy, CLP must address the challenges Community
help communities adapt to a hotter climate and support a more climate-resilient energy that natural resource constraints and extreme weather conditions pose to its physical assets. CLP conducted
grid system. asset-level physical climate risk assessments and continues to develop adaptation measures to enhance the
resilience of individual assets in each region.
Reinforcing cyber Financial risk: A major cyber-security breach could present a serious risk to CLP's CLP enhanced cybersecurity governance in 2023 and set up a new security operations centre in Hong Kong Customers,
resilience and financial position and reputation. to step up risk monitoring and strengthen response to incidents. Partners
data protection
Positive impact: CLP's investment in cybersecurity protections (including operational Group Security took the opportunity to upgrade its Security Operations Centre, enhance the cyber security Customers
technology security protocols, and specialised staff) can protect the data security of monitoring service for Operational Technology, and improve external support with a new Managed Security
customers and the power network they rely on. Service Provider. These changes collectively represent a significant uplift in CLP’s cyber security posture.
Negative impact: A successful cyber-attack on one of CLP's Operational Technologies CLP operates in an ever-evolving cyber security threat landscape. In response, Group Security established Customers
(OT) systems, or to a lesser extent its IT system, could affect power plant operations, a Cyber Security Governance and Risk Management function that is helping the wider Group to take
causing outages and disruption that adversely impact customers and communities. responsibility for cyber security risk management and be accountable for their decisions. CLP continually
monitors its IT systems and networks and stays alert to potential threats to its OT systems. If suspicious
activity is discovered in the OT network environments, immediate action is taken to investigate it and, if
necessary, isolate the threat and initiate recovery action.
1 Time horizon is defined as 0-1 year as short-term; 1-5 years as medium-term; and 5+ years as long-term, to align with CLP's operating environment.
For example, business and financial planning, risk management and climate pattern changes.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 43

--- Page 44 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Governance Risk management Stakeholder management Materiality The materiality matrix
assessment process
CLP actively manages and responds to the sustainability-related impacts, risks and opportunities summarised in the table below. The latest materiality assessment
Upstream Own operations Downstream Short-term Medium-term Long-term
results also inform the Group's business strategy and integrate into the broader risk management process.
Material Topic Sub-topic Megatrend Impacts, risks and opportunities Value Time CLP's Response Relevant
chain horizon1 stakeholders
Community Ensuring thriving Positive impact: CLP continues to serve local communities through long-standing CLP has a long tradition of serving its local communities through wide-ranging engagement and funding Community
stewardship communities engagement and investment programmes related to education, empowerment programmes. In 2023, CLP Power in Hong Kong allocated HK$20 million to subsidise families living in
of women, healthcare access, poverty alleviation, social inclusion, diversity and transitional housing to purchase energy-efficient appliances and HK$5 million to rewire subdivided units for
eliminating energy poverty. the installation of individual electricity meters to improve the tenants' home safety and quality of life.
Positive impact: CLP provides assistance to people and different community sectors to In 2023, the CLP Fuel Cost Subsidy Programme in Hong Kong provided HK$110 million of electricity subsidies Community
support the provision of affordable energy. to 150,000 underprivileged households, including 50,000 tenants of subdivided flats. The subsidies are a part
of the community support programme with an allocation of over HK$200 million from the CLP Community
Energy Saving Fund.
Negative impact:: Failing to provide a 'just transition' for coal-fired power plant To ensure thoughtful planning and support to CLP's staff and community throughout the closure of Yallourn Community
employees may result in negative economic, health and social impacts for workers, their Power Station, EnergyAustralia supported staff through re-employment initiatives, while the community is
families and their communities. engaged in envisioning the future of the site. Current rehabilitation efforts are carried out in collaboration
with a local NGO, landcare and government groups.
Promoting Negative impact: Failure to identify and act on poor labour standards and human rights CLP is seeking to implement the responsible, safe and ethical procurement of labour, products and services. Partners,
responsible practices in CLP's operations and especially supply chains could result in physical and In 2023, CLP Commercial and Supply Chain Management (CSCM) established a Supply Chain Sustainability Our people
supply chains psychological harm to workers, and/or violations of their labour rights. management framework as the first phase of implementing the Sustainable Procurement three-year
roadmap. In accordance with this Supply Chain Sustainability management framework, CLP will start
building supplier profiles towards the alignment with the Supplier Code of Conduct (SCoC).
Reducing Financial risk: Failing to manage pollutants, including high emissions associated CLP set new mid- and long-term targets in 2023 for reductions in air emissions, water use and Capital providers,
environmental with nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulphur oxides (SOx), particulate matter (PM), lead and waste generation, as part of a comprehensive environmental strategy that encompasses every aspect Partners,
impacts mercury in densely populated areas could result in regulatory penalties and public of operations. Community
health concerns.
1 Time horizon is defined as 0-1 year as short-term; 1-5 years as medium-term; and 5+ years as long-term, to align with CLP's operating environment.
For example, business and financial planning, risk management and climate pattern changes.
For details of CLP's response to fi nancial For details of CLP's responses to positive and
opportunities and risks, please read Delivering negative impacts, please read Sustainability
Our Sustainability Agenda chapter of Annual Agenda chapter of this report
Report 2023
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 44

--- Page 45 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Governance Risk management Stakeholder management Materiality The materiality matrix
assessment process
CLP actively manages and responds to the sustainability-related impacts, risks and opportunities summarised in the table below. The latest materiality assessment
Upstream Own operations Downstream Short-term Medium-term Long-term
results also inform the Group's business strategy and integrate into the broader risk management process.
Material Topic Sub-topic Megatrend Impacts, risks and opportunities Value Time CLP's Response Relevant
chain horizon1 stakeholders
Community Ensuring thriving Positive impact: CLP continues to serve local communities through long-standing CLP has a long tradition of serving its local communities through wide-ranging engagement and funding Community
stewardship communities engagement and investment programmes related to education, empowerment programmes. In 2023, CLP Power in Hong Kong allocated HK$20 million to subsidise families living in
of women, healthcare access, poverty alleviation, social inclusion, diversity and transitional housing to purchase energy-efficient appliances and HK$5 million to rewire subdivided units for
eliminating energy poverty. the installation of individual electricity meters to improve the tenants' home safety and quality of life.
Positive impact: CLP provides assistance to people and different community sectors to In 2023, the CLP Fuel Cost Subsidy Programme in Hong Kong provided HK$110 million of electricity subsidies Community
support the provision of affordable energy. to 150,000 underprivileged households, including 50,000 tenants of subdivided flats. The subsidies are a part
of the community support programme with an allocation of over HK$200 million from the CLP Community
Energy Saving Fund.
Negative impact:: Failing to provide a 'just transition' for coal-fired power plant To ensure thoughtful planning and support to CLP's staff and community throughout the closure of Yallourn Community
employees may result in negative economic, health and social impacts for workers, their Power Station, EnergyAustralia supported staff through re-employment initiatives, while the community is
families and their communities. engaged in envisioning the future of the site. Current rehabilitation efforts are carried out in collaboration
with a local NGO, landcare and government groups.
Promoting Negative impact: Failure to identify and act on poor labour standards and human rights CLP is seeking to implement the responsible, safe and ethical procurement of labour, products and services. Partners,
responsible practices in CLP's operations and especially supply chains could result in physical and In 2023, CLP Commercial and Supply Chain Management (CSCM) established a Supply Chain Sustainability Our people
supply chains psychological harm to workers, and/or violations of their labour rights. management framework as the first phase of implementing the Sustainable Procurement three-year
roadmap. In accordance with this Supply Chain Sustainability management framework, CLP will start
building supplier profiles towards the alignment with the Supplier Code of Conduct (SCoC).
Reducing Financial risk: Failing to manage pollutants, including high emissions associated CLP set new mid- and long-term targets in 2023 for reductions in air emissions, water use and Capital providers,
environmental with nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulphur oxides (SOx), particulate matter (PM), lead and waste generation, as part of a comprehensive environmental strategy that encompasses every aspect Partners,
impacts mercury in densely populated areas could result in regulatory penalties and public of operations. Community
health concerns.
1 Time horizon is defined as 0-1 year as short-term; 1-5 years as medium-term; and 5+ years as long-term, to align with CLP's operating environment.
For example, business and financial planning, risk management and climate pattern changes.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 45

--- Page 46 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Our Sustainability
Agenda
Transition to net zero 47
Energy growth opportunities 50
Energy security and reliability 52
A safe, future-ready workforce 54
Business resilience 57
Community stewardship 59

--- Page 47 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Transition to net zero Energy growth opportunities Energy security and reliability A safe, future- Business resilience Community stewardship
ready workforce
Transition to net zero
CLP is decarbonising its existing asset base, investing in
electricity infrastructure, ensuring the delivery of reliable and
reasonably priced energy, and acting as a trusted partner for
customers, communities, governments and investors in the
transition to a just and fair energy future.
Investing in zero-carbon energy infrastructure
The continued scaling of existing infrastructure and the deployment of new energy assets is necessary to
respond to rising electricity demand. CLP’s investments will ensure that future electrification will draw on
efficient, zero-carbon sources. There are opportunities for further investment, such as nuclear energy, to make
the energy infrastructure zero-carbon and more efficient.
As CLP progressively phases out its coal-fired power In India, Apraava Energy continued to build its renewable
generation assets, the Company is directing investment energy portfolios, securing preliminary grid connectivity for
towards zero-carbon streams of business, including 300MW capacity at the Bijapur Grid Substation from the Aski
renewable energy and energy services. In 2023, CLP continued wind project, and 250MW capacity from a solar power project
to expand its renewable energy portfolio in Mainland China. organised by the National Hydroelectric Power Corporation
Commercial operations began at the 50MW Xundian II wind (NHPC). Its 251MW Sidhpur wind farm in Gujarat state
farm in Yunnan province and the 73.7MW Gongdao solar continues to progress, with an expected commission date
plant in Jiangsu province, and construction commenced for in the first quarter of 2024. Apraava Energy has also entered
the 150MW Bobai wind farm. These additional renewable into agreements to develop transmission lines and substation
assets are enabling customers to access a zero-carbon energy infrastructure that will support 20GW of renewable energy
supply and are supporting the issuance of Green Electricity capacity in Rajasthan State in northern India.
Certificates (GECs).
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 47

--- Page 48 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Transition to net zero Energy growth opportunities Energy security and reliability A safe, future- Business resilience Community stewardship
ready workforce
In Australia, EnergyAustralia announced its decarbonisation In expanding its renewable energy portfolio to address
strategy and ambition with the launch of its Climate climate change, CLP recognises the importance of nuclear
Transition Action Plan (CTAP) in August 2023. The major zero- energy. COP28’s ‘Global Stocktake’ agreement recognised
carbon investment commitment is to expand the renewables nuclear energy technology as one of the technologies that
generation and storage portfolio up to 3GW. As part of needs to be accelerated to achieve the goals of the Paris
this commitment, EnergyAustralia signed new 10-year off- Agreement. This inclusion of nuclear energy marks a major
take agreements for energy storage services that allow reversal in the treatment of nuclear energy in the COP
market control over 90MW/180MWh of Edify Energy's process. CLP has investments in two nuclear power stations in
batteries in New South Wales. These commenced operation in Guangdong province namely Daya Bay Nuclear Power Station
October 2023. and Yangjiang Nuclear Power Station. Around 80% of Daya
Bay's electricity output is supplied to Hong Kong, meeting a
In addition, EnergyAustralia has stated that it will lower the quarter of Hong Kong’s electricity needs. This move aims to
total emissions level of Mount Piper by running it as a reserve support the development of low-carbon energy in Mainland
or backup for renewables generation. It will retire the Yallourn China and Hong Kong. In 2023, nuclear energy accounted for
power station and brown coal mine in mid-2028, resulting in a 32% of CLP’s fuel mix (natural gas 49%, coal 19%) in Hong Kong.
reduction of EnergyAustralia’s Scope 1 total emissions by over To meet Hong Kong’s 2035 decarbonisation target, CLP will
60% on 2019–20 levels in 2028–2029. explore import of more nuclear energy and renewable energy
in a manner that is acceptable to the community.
Further information on EnergyAustralia’s Climate
Transition Action Plan can be found on the CLP’s investment in innovation aims to identify viable
EnergyAustralia website. energy solutions for accelerating the low carbon transition
and minimising environmental impacts. Through the Group
CLP continues its efforts in expanding the renewable energy Ventures & Research function, CLP is engaging in research
portfolio. In 2023, the Group’s renewable energy portfolio, partnerships and collaborating with leading utility companies,
including equity capacity and long-term capacity and energy international organisations and research institutes. CLP
purchase arrangements, increased to 3,732MW, compared to also works closely with local Hong Kong universities on
3,611MW in 2022 mainly due to the addition of the Bobai cutting-edge technology research projects. The CLP Research
wind project. The renewable energy portfolio now sits at Fellowship Programme brings together research teams
64% wind energy, 23% solar and 13% hydro. While CLP has from two local universities to work on research into
made strategic investments to reduce the carbon intensity transport electrification and customers' energy consumption
of its baseload power generation, the Group's operating patterns. By working together with academic experts and
earnings from non-carbon assets have been growing in the last industry leaders, CLP can leverage collective expertise and
few years. resources to drive innovation and find sustainable solutions to
energy challenges.
As part of CLP's efforts in reducing GHG emissions, CLP
continue to look for ways to improve the energy e fficiency
of its offices. For example, CLP's new Hong Kong Head office,
due to open by the end of 2024, will incorporate energy-
efficient and environmental design, including provision of
electric vehicle (EV) chargers in all office parking spaces,
rooftop photovoltaic (PV) panels and automatic curtain control
system, etc. Located in the recently developed Kai Tak area,
the office will also make use of the Government’s district
cooling service. The centralised system utilises sea water to
produce chilled water at the central plants and then distributes
the chilled water to consumer buildings in the area. This is
expected to reduce CLP's energy use and GHG footprint.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 48

--- Page 49 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Transition to net zero Energy growth opportunities Energy security and reliability A safe, future- Business resilience Community stewardship
ready workforce
Reducing environmental impacts
Degradation of natural resources and ecosystems has significant impacts on the environment, human societies
and economies. CLP is working to reduce its environmental impacts in the areas in which it operates,
especially in relation to water, biodiversity and air pollution. It is also undertaking prudent management of the
phase-out of coal-fired power plants, to meet tightening environmental regulations and increasing investor
and societal expectations.
As a company with a long history of serving the community, storage and regasification unit (FSRU) technology. This
CLP is committed to minimising the impact of its operations offshore LNG terminal entered service and received its fi rst
on the environment and is actively integrating the concepts LNG cargo in July 2023. This new piece of infrastructure
of circular economy and biodiversity conservation into its enhances the security of natural gas supply for Hong Kong's
operations and supply chain. This year, CLP conducted a energy transition. Natural gas is not only a lower-carbon fuel
biodiversity sensitive area analysis among its operational option than coal but also generates fewer air pollutants in the
control assets with reference to the Taskforce on Nature- combustion process, the LNG terminal will contribute to the
related Financial Disclosures (TNFD) Recommendations, as a improvement of Hong Kong's air quality.
starting point for forming a holistic nature-related strategy.
In revising its Climate Vision 2050, CLP has recognised As part of its emission reduction plan, CLP has been
opportunities to significantly reduce air emissions as it phases implementing various air emission control measures with
out its coal-fired assets. To accelerate progress towards its advanced emissions reduction technology in its fossil fuel
medium- and long-term goals, CLP has revamped its group- plants such as deploying the new 600MW combined-cycle gas
wide air emission targets covering nitrogen oxides (NO), turbine D2 generation unit at Black Point Power Station as
x
sulphur dioxide (SO) and particulate matters (PM). well as using a combination of Electrostatic Precipitator (ESP)
2
and Fabric Filter to further reduce PM emissions at Jhajjar
Under CLP's Climate Vision 2050, one of the goals is on Power Station.
progressively phasing out coal for power generation by 2040.
In Hong Kong, CLP Power and Hongkong Electric Co., Ltd. (HK For details of the above initiatives, please refer to the
Electric) joined hands to develop an offshore liquefied natural Respecting Nature section.
gas (LNG) terminal in Hong Kong waters utilising floating
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 49

--- Page 50 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Transition to net zero Energy growth opportunities Energy security and reliability A safe, future- Business resilience Community stewardship
ready workforce
Energy growth opportunities
Different regulatory environments across CLP’s markets affect
growth opportunities locally. In Mainland China, especially in the
Greater Bay Area (GBA), opportunities are significant due to the
region’s large population and its proximity to CLP’s home market
of Hong Kong. This offers prospects for mutually beneficial
joint venture partnerships with State Owned Enterprises. CLP
is working with public and private sector partners to accelerate
the energy transition in line with government objectives, scale
up electricity generation to meet rising demand as other sectors
electrify, and introduce new energy products and services that
meet customer needs.
Creating new revenue streams as other sectors electrify
Electricity demand is set to increase significantly as more industry sectors electrify. CLP is enabling the
transition to a low carbon economy by scaling up its zero-carbon electricity generation to meet demand and
support the net zero plans of Hong Kong and other markets. In addition, electrification presents opportunities
to expand into new business lines in adjacent sectors such as transport, as well as other parts of the energy
value chain including electric vehicle charging.
As the energy market evolves to become more customer- In addition, since 2018, CLP Power has connected 2.23 million
centric, CLP is changing through innovation and the adoption smart meters for around 80% of its residential and SME
of new technologies, bringing cleaner and smarter power to customers aiming to promote low-carbon living and further
its customers. For example, to further promote and facilitate improve the safety and dependability of the power supply.
the adoption of eMobility, CLPe and AVIS Hong Kong (AVIS) In order to minimise energy use during hot summer days
announced the launch of Hong Kong's first Electric Vehicle-as- when demand is highest, CLP Power has been extending
a-Service in May 2023. This one-stop solution combines an EV an invitation to residential customers with smart meters to
rental service and a charging service, offering cost-effective slightly reduce their consumption since 2020. This summer,
options for businesses looking to switch to green motoring and approximately 950,000 families were invited to participate
helping Hong Kong achieve its goal of zero vehicle emissions. in the peak demand management programme. Approximately
70% of these households saved 410,000 kWh of electricity
CLP Power continued to provide free EV charging services over a four-hour peak time, which is equivalent to a reduction
in 2023 to encourage the expansion of green motoring in of 160 tonnes of carbon emissions.
Hong Kong. In 2023, CLP continued to enhance its charging
infrastructure within CLP premises to support greater EV CLP’s Group Ventures & Research Department integrates the
adoption in its fleet. Group’s venture investing, ecosystems activity and research
capabilities into a single team. For example, CLP's venture
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 50

--- Page 51 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Transition to net zero Energy growth opportunities Energy security and reliability A safe, future- Business resilience Community stewardship
ready workforce
portfolio company R&B has unlocked a new business line
for CLPe. R&B’s AI-powered energy management solution
has helped customers such as The Hong Kong University of
Science and Technology and Caritas Medical Centre, providing
them with greater insights into and control over their energy
usage. Similarly, Neuron, another portfolio company, is being
considered as a product offering by CLPe to customers,
through focusing on the development and application of the
best available technologies for the built environment with an
emphasis on efficiency and sustainability principles.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 51

--- Page 52 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Transition to net zero Energy growth opportunities Energy security and reliability A safe, future- Business resilience Community stewardship
ready workforce
Energy security and reliability
Energy security and reliability have been impacted by an
uncertain geopolitical environment and supply chain disruptions
over recent years. Higher fuel prices have resulted in assets
running at reduced capacity, which has increased costs for
CLP and its customers alike. The Group must balance two vital
and sometimes competing objectives: providing customers with
reliable and affordable energy while continuing to make rapid
progress with its decarbonisation objectives.
Providing customers with reliable and reasonably-priced energy
While customers’ expectations around technology and sustainability continue to shift, their need for e fficient,
reliable and reasonably-priced energy remains constant. CLP is striving to mitigate the impacts of the current
global energy crisis on consumer prices in the short term and maintain reliability while navigating the
accelerating energy transition over the longer term.
CLP Power has worked closely with the Hong Kong SAR installed to record the amount of electricity generated by the
Government to promote the development of renewable renewable energy system. CLP Power then offers a FiT rate
energy under the Scheme of Control (SoC) Agreement to which ranging from HK$2.5 to HK$4 per unit of electricity. By the end
a Feed-in Tariff (FiT) Scheme was added in 2018. The scheme of 2023, 376MW of renewable energy was approved under the
is applicable to electricity produced by solar and wind power Scheme, amounting to the annual electricity usage of 89,700
systems with a generation capacity of up to 1MW. Under the residential customers. This FiT Scheme, offering attractive
scheme, CLP Power will purchase electricity produced by an financial incentives, is further promoting the adoption of
approved renewable energy system once it is successfully renewable energy by customers.
connected to the Company's power grid. A smart meter is
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 52

--- Page 53 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Transition to net zero Energy growth opportunities Energy security and reliability A safe, future- Business resilience Community stewardship
ready workforce
To ensure the reliability of power supply, especially during in the event of tower damage, reducing the amount of time it
extreme weather conditions, CLP Power continuously takes to restore power after tower damage to just two weeks.
evaluates and improves its emergency preparedness Furthermore, CLP Power has upgraded mitigation measures
protocols. It has implemented coordination systems and a at flood-prone transmission substations and distribution
typhoon response protocol with regular drills on handling substations to minimise the impact of flooding.
incidents during extreme weather events. One initiative
has been to bolster the transmission tower structures and This has resulted in improved supply failure detection and a
foundations for 400kV overhead lines to withstand super reduction in repair time. CLP Power also ensures effective
typhoons with wind gusts of up to 300 km/h. In addition, CLP communication with customers by disseminating information
Power has implemented an Emergency Restoration System through various channels, close communication with relevant
that allows for the quick construction of temporary masts stakeholders and providing an online form for customers to
report power outages conveniently.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 53

--- Page 54 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Transition to net zero Energy growth opportunities Energy security and reliability A safe, future- Business resilience Community stewardship
ready workforce
A safe, future-ready workforce
CLP’s long-term success relies on its capability to attract, develop
and retain a workforce that is safe and healthy, diverse and
inclusive, skilled for the future, and well-supported to fulfil the
customer demands of today, and that can adapt rapidly to the
social and technological changes brought by energy transition.
Workplace safety, wellbeing and flexibility are top priorities.
So too is the attraction, development and retention of diverse
talent, with a focus on the skills needed to advance CLP’s critical
decarbonisation and digitalisation agendas.
Attracting and developing diverse future talent and capabilities
CLP’s ability to transition to a zero-carbon, digitally enabled future requires systematic organisational
development and adoption of the capabilities required to compete effectively in key markets. The Group is
focused on ensuring adequate talent supply; attracting and retaining a diverse, multi-generational workforce;
developing new skills and capabilities and sharing talent effectively across the portfolio of businesses;
developing leaders with the resilience, agility, stakeholder management and change leadership skills to
position the Group for growth; and fostering an open and agile organisation and work culture. These efforts are
underpinned by ensuring that work practices are fair, ethical and remain fit for purpose at a time of accelerating
social and regulatory change.
Recognising the challenge of increased competition for CLP stepped-up efforts to expose high-potential team
talent in all the Group’s markets, diversified strategies were members to energy transition developments, with study tours
applied including expanded efforts to develop talent supply now embedded in every development programme and over
at all levels, investment in talent acquisition capabilities 100 team members participating in 2023 after COVID-19
and targeted retention initiatives. Graduate and internship border restrictions were lifted. Diversity and inclusion
opportunities were expanded, including introduction of a initiatives were expanded to include the establishment of
Digital Graduate Programme in Hong Kong. Collaborations an employee-led Gender Equity Affinity Group for awareness-
with institutions in Hong Kong, Mainland China and overseas building and peer support. Work continued to embed new
increased to promote CLP careers, and to create more leadership competencies across core markets, with refreshed
opportunities for industry skills development through the CLP management training programmes commenced.
Power Academy.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 54

--- Page 55 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Transition to net zero Energy growth opportunities Energy security and reliability A safe, future- Business resilience Community stewardship
ready workforce
Helping our people succeed
CLP is committed to developing an engaged and high-performing workforce, and to supporting all its people to
succeed and thrive in this period of change brought about by energy transition. This is achieved through a long-
term focus on maintaining strong working relationships with employees and their representatives, providing
flexible working arrangements and benefits to support employees through all life stages, strengthening their
wellbeing and resilience, and providing support and re-skilling to employees whose jobs are affected by the
transition to net zero or other business restructuring.
In core markets, CLP commenced implementing a refreshed In Yallourn, a partnership with a local offshore wind farm
approach to performance management, aimed at enhancing in the Gippsland region has been established to enable
feedback to team members to support their development and redeployment of employees whose skills may be transferable
increasing performance differentiation. Across all markets, to wind farms and continuous engagement with the workforce
CLP helped employees through retraining or providing and communities impacted by the closure is underway
supported transition into new roles. This included continued through regular forums and meetings. Across the Group, more
execution of EnergyAustralia’s structured programme to flexible work options and renovations to work environments
prepare for the announced closure of Yallourn in 2028, were implemented to address employees’ needs at different
as well as redeployment of head office team members to life stages.
business-based roles supporting decarbonisation projects and
digital initiatives.
Embedding agile and innovative ways of working, mindsets and behaviours
Critical to CLP’s ability to respond to a changing energy market and to the social and geopolitical uncertainties
that continue to reshape its business landscape are implementing and embedding new ways of working,
mindsets and behaviours, that are more efficient and commercial, while maintaining deeply held CLP values,
good engagement and workplace relations, and a culture of operational excellence and safety.
CLP continues to make progress on its multi-year “new ways modernised. CLP further refined its fit-for-purpose Operating
of working” journey through a comprehensive refresh of its Model in Hong Kong and Mainland China to locate execution
values and behaviours. This refresh will be launched in early capabilities closer to customers, while enhancing governance
2024 to guide team members to drive business success. and oversight of business performance. Design thinking and
To enable more digitalised and efficient ways of working, digital capabilities programmes continued to be hosted to
business processes continue to be streamlined and enhance skills and agile thinking.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 55

--- Page 56 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Transition to net zero Energy growth opportunities Energy security and reliability A safe, future- Business resilience Community stewardship
ready workforce
Promoting workplace safety and wellbeing
CLP is committed to providing a safe workplace environment for its employees and contractors.
To help CLP's people integrate wellbeing into work, CLP CLP has also provided its employees with an online digital
organised a year-round series of “Wellbeing as a Leadership wellbeing platform, Virgin Pulse, to support their physical and
Skill” workshops, covering wellbeing, demands and resources, mental wellbeing. In 2023, there was an increase in the number
resilience and various tools for leaders to support their of employees signing up for the platform, with around 40% of
teams. The workshops also offered leaders a chance to r eflect employees in Hong Kong now being members. In addition, CLP
on their own wellbeing and understand how this plays a launched a Fitbit programme to raise employees’ awareness of
part in creating a satisfying, healthy and psychologically their individual health and fitness levels.
safe workplace.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 56

--- Page 57 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Transition to net zero Energy growth opportunities Energy security and reliability A safe, future- Business resilience Community stewardship
ready workforce
Business resilience
The accelerating pace of environmental, technological,
regulatory and social changes has reinforced the importance
of business resilience. CLP recognises the strategic value of
anticipating, withstanding and learning from disruptive events,
especially in response to the growing threats posed by climate
change and cybercrime.
Building resilience in the face of climate change and an evolving
business environment
To ensure a reliable, reasonably-priced and sustainable supply of energy, CLP must address the challenges that
natural resource constraints and extreme weather conditions pose to its physical assets. While investment is
needed to manage physical climate risks, adaptation practices which can better track and analyse ESG-related
data also present opportunities to build a more climate-resilient energy grid system, bringing benefits for both
CLP and local communities.
Building resilience against climate change is a prominent part transition climate risks have been evaluated. Furthermore,
of CLP's Climate Vision 2050. To prepare for and respond CLP completed a project with an external carbon consultancy
to future shocks, CLP has put in place a strong governance firm to develop a methodology for assessing the 'Implied
and risk management foundation that fully integrates climate Temperature Rise (ITR)' of CLP’s decarbonisation target in
and sustainability-related risks into its Group-wide risk 2023. This methodology allows electric utilities to better
management system, with the oversight of Board and senior understand their transition risks by quantifying the level
management. To navigate uncertainties relating to climate of alignment of their decarbonisation effort based on their
change, CLP has conducted climate risk assessment based sector’s “carbon budget” determined by the Science Based
on three climate scenarios which were reviewed in 2023, Target Initiative (SBTi).
including a high-emission scenario, low-emission scenario and
a deferred transition scenario – based on which physical and
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 57

--- Page 58 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Transition to net zero Energy growth opportunities Energy security and reliability A safe, future- Business resilience Community stewardship
ready workforce
As the nature and extent of threats to operations and supply In India, Apraava Energy has conducted climate risk
reliability varies across geographies, CLP has conducted assessments for its current sites as well as for proposed
asset-level physical climate risk assessments and developed sites using a Physical Climate Risk Screening tool which helps
adaptation measures to enhance the resilience of individual forecast weather patterns at certain geographic locations.
assets in each region. In Hong Kong, CLP Power has It has also informed concerned stakeholders about the
developed the Asset Management Standard on Climate relevant climate-related risks for their supply chain planning.
Change Adaptation for its generation and network assets Insurance coverage has been arranged for all Apraava Energy
based on the results of the physical climate change risk sites to mitigate the adverse consequences of extreme
assessment and climate change adaptation study conducted weather events.
in 2022. In the face of increasingly frequent extreme weather
conditions, CLP Power has adopted various measures and In Australia, an extensive, site-specific physical risk
technologies in recent years to enhance the resilience of its assessment was undertaken in 2023. Using a range of
transmission networks and its emergency preparedness. For climate scenarios, risks to individual assets and staff
details, please refer to the Providing customers with reliable safety and well-being were quantified out to 2050.
and reasonably priced energy section. This included factors such as wildfires, coastal fl ooding,
extreme precipitation and inland flooding, extreme heat,
In Mainland China, CLP China conducted a comprehensive extreme cold, landslides, water stress and drought. Findings
review of the risks faced by its renewable energy assets were incorporated into EnergyAustralia’s broader Enterprise-
and its existing risk mitigation measures to ensure the level Risk Scenarios with additional site-specific measures
effectiveness of its risk management practices. The equipment developed to further mitigate the physical risks associated
of the new assets is designed with an ability to withstand with extreme climate change.
extreme weather conditions, while the existing assets have
been upgraded to enhance their resilience level. Emergency CLP’s Climate Vision 2050: Powering an orderly
preparedness plans, covering evacuation procedures, backup transition provides more information on the
power sources and communication protocols, are in place for Group’s climate transition plan
responding to various types of extreme weather events.
Reinforcing cyber resilience and data protection
CLP operates in an ever-evolving cyber security threat landscape. It is therefore important that the business
has appropriate measures in place to address these threats. Cyber security risks to CLP, its investments and
business interests are business risks, and they are therefore managed in line with CLP’s established Risk
Management Framework.
In 2023, Group Security established a Cyber Security Now operating within CLP Digital, Group Security has taken
Governance and Risk Management function which is helping the opportunity to upgrade its Security Operations Centre,
the wider Group take responsibility for cyber security enhance the cyber security monitoring service for Operational
risk management and decision-making. Additionally, Group Technology, and improve external support with a new
Security, in general, supports CLP in securing its assets Managed Security Service Provider. These changes collectively
to a level commensurate with the individual business’s represent a significant uplift in CLP’s cyber security posture.
risk appetite, to ensure that any security breaches have a
minimal impact.
Group Security refreshed its security standards during the
year. These define individual and organisational obligations
and guide the business in implementing good security
practices. Where relevant, employees, subcontractors and
third parties are required to comply with CLP’s policies and
standards, and its philosophy of risk management is now
integrated into these documents.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 58

--- Page 59 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Transition to net zero Energy growth opportunities Energy security and reliability A safe, future- Business resilience Community stewardship
ready workforce
Community stewardship
CLP recognises its obligations to meet evolving stakeholder
expectations around the positive role businesses should play
in society. This includes demonstrating leadership in its
decarbonisation ambitions, investing in green energy solutions
that support the electrification of society, and transparently
reporting on its ESG performance. Environmental stewardship
extends to actively managing CLP’s dependencies and impacts
on nature. Employee and supplier wellbeing is another priority.
The Group recognises the importance of ensuring ethical human
rights practices in its value chain, as well as of supporting
employees and communities impacted by the closure of its fossil
fuel assets.
Ensuring thriving communities
CLP has a long tradition of serving its local communities through wide-ranging engagement and investment
programmes. These include the provision of financial assistance – such as subsidised energy – to people and
community sectors in need, and of ongoing support for those impacted by the phase-out of its coal-fired power
plants and other structural changes to the energy system.
In 2023, CLP Power provided further assistance to low-income CLP’s commitment to community is also demonstrated in its
families via a range of support initiatives. The CLP Fuel Cost approach to ensure a just energy transition. EnergyAustralia
Subsidy Programme provided HK$110 million in subsidies has set a clear path for the closure of Yallourn Power Station in
to 150,000 underprivileged households, including 50,000 mid-2028, providing seven years’ notice to enable thoughtful
tenants of subdivided units to alleviate their electricity bills planning and support to staff and the local community. Staff
brought by the increase in fuel cost. The subsidies are a are being supported through re-employment initiatives, while
part of the community support programmes in 2023 with an the community has been engaged to envision the future of
allocation of over HK$200 million from the Community Energy the site. Current rehabilitation efforts are being carried out
Saving Fund. Additional initiatives include a HK$20 million in collaboration with a local NGO and government groups.
scheme to subsidise families living in transitional housing The transformation of the coal mine into a recreational hub,
to purchase energy-efficient appliances, and a HK$5 million a lake, native bushlands and walking paths will revitalise the
project to rewire subdivided units so that individual electricity region at the social and economic levels while preserving local
meters can be installed. cultural heritage.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 59

--- Page 60 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Transition to net zero Energy growth opportunities Energy security and reliability A safe, future- Business resilience Community stewardship
ready workforce
Promoting responsible supply chains
CLP is seeking to implement the responsible, safe and ethical procurement of labour, products and services.
It also recognises its responsibility to eliminate all forms of modern slavery and exploitation from its
supply chains.
In 2023, CLP Commercial and Supply Chain Management CLP has included SCoC acknowledgement in the
(CSCM) established a Supply Chain Risk management communication pack it sends to all its suppliers. By 2023,
framework in alignment with the implementation of the more than 500 suppliers had committed themselves to abide
Sustainable Procurement three-year roadmap. In accordance by the SCoC principles. EnergyAustralia has developed an
with this framework, CLP will start building supplier p rofiles in-house risk matrix to assess the modern slavery risks in
according to the principles set out in the Supplier Code of its supply chain based on supplier locations and commodity
Conduct (SCoC). CLP has zero tolerance in respect to child types. For details, please refer to the sections of Supply chain
labour and forced labour under the Labour Practices and management and Responsible procurement.
Human Rights sections in SCoC, and this is communicated to
its suppliers.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 60

--- Page 61 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Respecting Nature
Introduction 62
Governance 64
Strategy 67
Managing impacts, risks 71
and performance

--- Page 62 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Introduction Governance Strategy Managing impacts, risks
and performance
Introduction
Overview
Nature-related areas of interests Relevant sustainability agenda
•
Governance Transition to net zero
•
Strategy •
• Reducing environmental impacts
Management impacts, risks and performance
– Biodiversity and ecosystem
– Air emissions
– Waste management and material use
– Water
Outcome for nature
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 62

--- Page 63 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Introduction Governance Strategy Managing impacts, risks
and performance
Background In this Section, CLP is disclosing nature-related topics
in accordance with the Task Force on Nature-related
Financial Disclosures (TNFD), outlinging CLP's commitments
CLP is continuously striving to manage and reduce
to responsible practices in biodiversity, the circular economy
environmental impacts in its operations. With biodiversity
and environmental discharges. The TNFD framework is helping
and ecosystems declining globally, respecting and protecting
to deepen CLP’s understanding of the areas of focus and
nature is critical. Companies like CLP are currently at a
the metrics that need to be assessed in order to better
pivotal stage in understanding the connections between
manage the Group’s relationship with nature. CLP is disclosing
biodiversity and climate change, the nature systems that
how it assesses nature-related risks and opportunities in its
provide ecosystem services, and the impacts and fi nancial
governance, strategy, risk and impact management, as well as
implications that nature loss has on their operations.
relevant metrics and targets.
Nature was also a key priority in the COP28 Presidency's
Action Agenda, highlighting new opportunities for scaling up
nature and climate action, including developing nature-based
offset solutions such as high-quality forest carbon credits and
other policy and financial enablers.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 63

--- Page 64 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Introduction Governance Strategy Managing impacts, risks
and performance
Governance
Our approach Governance of nature-related issues
Sustainability is integrated into CLP’s business strategy and
CLP embraces a robust governance structure,
corporate governance. This includes oversight and governance
with top management committed to managing
of nature-related issues, and CLP’s commitment to protecting
nature-related impacts, risks and opportunities
the environment.
effectively. The Group has established clear
roles and responsibilities, as well as decision-
This approach ensures that nature, along with other
making processes, to ensure accountability and
sustainability issues are part of the corporate agenda. As
transparency in these areas. This is enabling CLP
part of overall sustainability management, the Board-level
to proactively identify, assess and manage the risks
Sustainability Committee (SusCom) has oversight of nature-
and opportunities around biodiversity conservation,
related impacts, risks and opportunities and has a role
circular economy, and environmental discharges.
in evaluating the adequacy and effectiveness of the CLP’s
Health, Safety, Security and Environment (HSSE) Framework,
Nature-related commitments
supported by the Sustainability Executive Committee (SEC)
and the CLP Group HSSE Executive Committee.
CLP strives to preserve and enhance natural resources and
promote biodiversity.
Board and management oversight
The SusCom and SEC holds the primary responsibility of
CLP recognises its critical role in minimising environmental
overseeing the management of the Group’s sustainability
impacts. Its care for the environment is stated clearly in the
matters, including nature-related topics. For details of their
Group’s Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) Policy, which
roles and responsibilities as well as the key nature-related
requires CLP to:
agenda discussed in 2023, please refer to the Sustainability
• Governance sections.
Protect the environment, including preventing pollution
and minimising the risk of environmental incidents;
Under the Board’s oversight, the CLP Group CEO has ultimate
•
Strive to use resources including water and energy accountability for reporting the performance and governance
efficiently, and minimise emissions, discharges and of HSE management to the SusCom, while delegating the
waste; and authority for day-to-day decision-making on HSE governance
• Minimise any adverse impacts of its operations on and assurance issues across CLP to the Group COO. Also
biodiversity by protecting endangered fauna and flora and chaired by the CEO, the CLP Group HSSE Executive Committee
promoting ecological conservation. appoints senior executives to review and evaluate CLP’s
overall governance, strategy, performance and assurance in
Health, Safety, Security & Environment. In 2023, a nature-
Learn more about CLP Group HSE Policy related agenda, including the Group’s revised medium-
and long-term environmental targets considering nature
dependencies and impact drivers, was endorsed by HSSE
One of CLP’s environmental responsibilities is the
Executive Committee.
conservation of biodiversity. Recognising rising biodiversity
loss globally, CLP is maintaining its goal of “no net loss
Development and implementation of nature-related
of biodiversity”. Through various initiatives, the Group has
strategies, policies and goals
demonstrated its dedication to safeguarding habitat quality
The Environment Team of the Group HSE Department is
and preserving the biodiversity of specific ecosystems in the
responsible for providing expert advice on environmental
regions where it operates.
issues and impacts, ensuring timely reporting, and
coordinating the implementation of the Environmental
Pillar of the Group HSE Improvement Strategy. It is
also responsible for defining appropriate environmental
standards for operations, driving continuous improvement
and promoting a positive engagement culture. During
execution, it works closely with different business units to
ensure that relevant environmental standards and policies are
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 64

--- Page 65 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Introduction Governance Strategy Managing impacts, risks
and performance
properly adopted and the improvement strategies are being Monitoring and compliance of emissions and other
effectively implemented and embedded across CLP. Through nature-related regulations
coordinating with different business units, it drives continual
improvement of the ISO 14001 environmental management CLP’s business processes and practices support its endeavours
system in ways that go beyond compliance, and to enhance to maintain full compliance with applicable emissions and
existing environmental evaluation criteria throughout the other nature-related laws and regulations in the jurisdictions
value chain for procurement and tender specifications. in which it operates.
Various working groups have also been established to SASB reference: IF-EU-140a.2; GRI reference: 2-27, 201-1, 306-3 (2016)
manage environmental and nature-related initiatives, led
by the Environment Team of the Group HSE Department Established processes are in place to ensure understanding
and supported by relevant functional teams and regions. of relevant emissions and other nature-related laws and
Their work includes conducting reviews on nature-related regulations for new investments, as well as updates
frameworks, undertaking the first stage of group-level TNFD to existing regulations and emerging legislation in this
nature assessments, developing and implementing circular field. Where compliance with new laws and regulations
economy strategies and plans, and setting out medium- and requires a transition period, CLP, where appropriate, works
long-term environmental targets. transparently with regulators as it establishes the business
practises and makes the investments necessary to satisfy the
new requirements.
CLP closely monitors developments in emissions and other
nature-related regulatory requirements. A summary of the
new and/or amended laws and regulations that emerged in
2023 that had or may have a significant impact on CLP's
business units are listed below.
•
Hong Kong The emission allowances of CLP's power plants have been progressively tightened over time through the Technical
Memorandums (TM) of the Air Pollution Control Ordinance. Since 2022, a new set of emission caps has required CLP
Power to further reduce the emissions of sulphur dioxide (SO), nitrogen oxides (NO) and Respiratory Suspended
2 x
Particulates (RSP) by 12% to 27% compared with the 2021 levels. CLP Power achieved full compliance in 2023.
•
India The Environment (Utilisation of Crop residue by Thermal Power Plants) Rules 2023 was issued on 11 July 2023 with
penalty for non-compliance expected to commence from 2024-2025. Jhajjar Power Station has issued tenders to
procure biomass pellets to comply with the 5% blending requirements. However, it is currently co-firing at 2% due to
issues with supply of biomass pellets and technical constraints in co-firing at such large quantities. While Jhajjar Power
Station has taken concrete steps and continues to work towards compliance with the Rules, as an abundance of caution
Jhajjar Power Station has written to the relevant authority as it works towards compliance.
•
The Central Electricity Authority (Flexible Operation of Coal based Thermal Power Generating Units) Regulations 2023
was issued on 25 January 2023 with compliance required by 25 January 2024. These Regulations are applicable to
Jhajjar Power Station, and Apraava Energy will determine the necessary modifications and investments required for
Jhajjar Power Station to be compliant.
•
The Energy Conservation (Amendment) Act 2022 and the Carbon Credit Scheme were enacted in 2023. Jhajjar Power
Station stands to face additional compliance requirements in light of the amendment and Apraava Energy continues
to monitor the updates of the additional compliance requirements.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 65

--- Page 66 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Introduction Governance Strategy Managing impacts, risks
and performance
•
Taiwan The Taiwan Environmental Protection Administration (EPA) made amendments to the Stationary Pollution Source
Hazardous Air Pollutant Emission Standards in 2023, in relation to which the Ho-Ping Power Station is expected to
have to pay an increased emission fee.
•
The Climate Change Response Act (which amended and replaced the Greenhouse Gas Reduction and Management
Act) was promulgated on 15 February 2023. Key elements include establishing authority and responsibility among
agencies, incorporating provisions on just transition, strengthening emissions control and incentive mechanisms to
enable emissions reduction and introducing a carbon fee. The financial impact to Ho-Ping will be subject to the details
of upcoming announcements expected on the carbon fee mechanism in 2024. Ho-Ping continues to monitor the
regulatory developments.
Emissions and other nature-related regulatory non-compliance and licence exceedances
Environmental compliance 2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
Environmental regulatory non-compliances
0 0 0 0 0
resulting in fines or prosecutions (number)1,2
Environmental licence limit exceedances & other
5 6 5 4 10
non-compliances (number)1,2
1 Apraava Energy ceased to be a subsidiary and is now accounted for as a joint venture. Apraava Energy is excluded in the figures for 2023, but included in figures for
2022 and prior years. Moreover, in November 2022, CLP sold its 70% interest in the coal-fired Fanchanggang Power Station, which has been excluded from CLP’s
reporting scope since then.
2 Numbers include operating assets where CLP has operational control during the calendar year. Paguthan Power Station, the power purchase agreements of which
expired in December 2018, was not included in the 2019-2023 numbers.
•
In 2023, all of the five emissions and other nature-related The fourth breach related to unauthorised vegetation
breaches were recorded by EnergyAustralia: clearing activities in the ash dam areas of Tallawarra Power
Station. EnergyAustralia immediately communicated with
•
Two related to short-term carbon monoxide (CO) licence the local EPA to explain the cause and apologise
limit exceedances. One of these exceedances occurred by demonstrating a good record of environmental
during a low-load operation stack emission test for diesel performance and a strong commitment to biodiversity and
firing at Jeeralang Power Station, while the other occurred community engagement. No EPA actions were incurred.
during a recommissioning run after a summer-readiness •
The final breach related to the brine conditioned ash
outage at Newport Power Station. Both incidents were
and salts emplaced in the Ash Repository at Mount
reported to the local Authority and no further regulatory
Piper Power Station over an authorised maximum height.
action was taken.
EnergyAustralia has developed mitigation measures to
•
Another breach related to a dust control issue at Yallourn relocate the overheight materials and raise awareness
Power Station. EnergyAustralia subsequently responded through training and visual markers. The incident was
to the local Environment Protection Authority (EPA) by reported to the local EPA and no further regulatory actions
updating its Risk Management and Monitoring Programme were incurred.
(RMMP) for dust control. After assessing the updated
RMMP, the EPA considered that appropriate mitigation
measures had been taken, and the case was closed with no
further actions.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 66

--- Page 67 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Introduction Governance Strategy Managing impacts, risks
and performance
Strategy
Our approach
As part of the Environmental Pillar of the Group’s Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) Improvement
Strategy, CLP sets out a nature-related strategy which aims to develop a more systematic and global
perspective on nature and circular economy, going beyond compliance with existing environmental
regulations. It entails obtaining a more thorough understanding of the relationship between nature and
business as well as developing a systematic management approach that considers the Group’s dependencies
and impact drivers, and will ultimately cover its value chain. By embracing this enhanced approach to nature,
CLP aims to effectively address the increasing interest from investors and stakeholders regarding how
businesses are integrating nature into corporate strategy.
Focus areas for nature-related strategy
CLP’s nature-related strategy emphasises three areas, including biodiversity conservation, circular economy transition and the
reduction of environmental discharges. It aims at ensuring these critical nature-related issues are well incorporated into CLP’s
governance, risk management and decision-making processes.
Biodiversity Biodiversity conservation creates positive impacts on local economies, particularly for critical industries that rely on certain
ecological processes. CLP strives to preserve natural resources with a goal of “no net loss of biodiversity”. To manage this topic
holistically, CLP is in the process of adopting nature-related frameworks, such as the Taskforce on Nature-related Financial
Disclosures (TNFD) framework. Read more in the Biodiversity and ecosystem section.
Circular
Economy CLP is dedicated to driving the transition towards a circular economy, recognising its ability to address waste and pollution
problems, and tackle climate change and biodiversity loss. In pursuit of this goal, CLP actively engages and partners with
stakeholders to integrate circular economy principles throughout its operations and supply chain. Read more in the Waste
management and material use section.
Reducing
Pollution CLP strives to comply with regulatory requirements and minimise its environmental impacts by managing its air emissions,
water use and waste generated during operations on a beyond compliance basis. Read more in the Air emissions, Water and
Waste management and material use sections.
Project cycle framework for environmental GRI reference: 2-23
management and assessment
To strengthen the management of nature-related topics
Underpinned by the Group HSE Policy, the CLP Group Health, in its HSEMS, CLP completed a review of nature-related
Safety and Environment Management System (HSEMS) sets frameworks (including TNFD) and CLP’s own practices on
out various environmental management tools and processes nature in late 2022.
to identify and manage significant environmental impacts
and risks arising from new investments, project planning
and operations.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 67

--- Page 68 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Introduction Governance Strategy Managing impacts, risks
and performance
•
The environmental management tools and processes across Environmental Management System (EMS)
the project lifecycle include: Over the years, CLP has diligently managed its
environmental impacts in line with international best
practices. For example, under the HSEMS, all power
generation assets of which CLP has operational or joint
operational control are required to achieve third-party
certification to international ISO 14001:2015 Environmental
Management Systems standard within two years from the
commencement of operation or acquisition. In 2023, all
assets in this category had successfully certified their EMS
to the ISO 14001: 2015 standard.
•
Data management system
Digital technology in data management is deployed to
ensure data integrity and measure progress against
targets, as well as to facilitate follow-up actions for each
asset. In addition to CLP’s customised Group Operations
Learn more about CLP’s HSEMS Information System (GOIS), CLP has been implementing
a customised environmental data management system,
named "EMIS" and "MonitorPro" in Hong Kong and
•
Environmental Due Diligence (EDD) and climate Australia respectively. The tool is designed to safeguard
risk assessment environmental data, automate trend analysis and data
At the project design and planning stage, CLP conducts reporting, and support compliance and risk management.
Pre-investment Environmental Risk Assessment which •
To enhance the digitalisation of greenhouse gas (GHG)
includes EDD to identify potential environmental risks,
accounting, CLP also commenced a GHG emission p rofile
liabilities and impacts. A climate risk assessment tool is
project on a digital platform designed to measure, track
also used to identify potential climate-related risks to
and manage GHG emissions and environmental impacts.
which the proposed project may be exposed. These due
This platform streamlines data collection, analysis and
diligence processes enable early evaluation of operational
reporting for enhanced transparency and data governance.
and business risks associated with the proposed project,
The pilot test was completed in July 2023, and historical
and are followed by further analysis and stakeholder
data migration and configuration is now underway.
engagement exercises to mitigate the risks if appropriate.
• For details of how these environmental management
Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA)
tools and processes are applied to specific environmental
EIA is a crucial step in ensuring all relevant environmental
aspects, please refer to the Managing impacts, risks and
impacts, such as air quality and biodiversity, have been
performance section.
properly considered and addressed by effective mitigation
measures. CLP has processes in place to fulfil the EIA
requirements and recommendations stipulated by local
regulators, and follows these same requirements in
countries where regulations are not as stringent.
Read about how environmental issues are
considered in new projects
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 68

--- Page 69 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Introduction Governance Strategy Managing impacts, risks
and performance
Conducting biodiversity sensitive area analysis stemming from the interactions of its business activities on
natural capital.
As the first step in CLP’s efforts to strengthening group-
wide nature and biodiversity strategies, CLP conducted a Making reference to the integrated LEAP approach and the
biodiversity sensitive area analysis which serves as an initial tools recommended by the TNFD, the analysis facilitates a shift
assessment to locate key biodiversity-sensitive areas and in CLP’s approach to nature from a compliance to a risk and
identify nature-related impact drivers and dependencies opportunity management perspective.
As an initial assessment, this current analysis focused on the Outcome and way forward
first two stages and was completed at the end of 2023. At the Riding on the results of this biodiversity sensitive area
“Locate” stage, all existing sites of CLP’s operations and assets analysis, CLP will strengthen risk management and explore
were assessed using the Integrated Biodiversity Assessment potential material topics related to nature and biodiversity for
Tool (IBAT) which contains a database of global biodiversity- which corporate-level targets and commitments may be set to
sensitive areas and threatened species. The assessment address their associated risks and opportunities. In addition,
enabled CLP to determine the priority locations which are CLP will refine the list of prioritised dependencies and impact
close to key biodiversity-sensitive areas for further analysis. drivers by iterating the assessment for thermal and renewable
assets for selecting priority locations. The analysis will focus on
At the “Evaluate” stage, CLP identified a list of potential the material site-specific nature-related dependencies and
dependencies and impact drivers on nature across its own impact drivers and proceed to the “Assess” stage of the
operations and assigned each of them a materiality rating LEAP approach. The associated risks and opportunities will
for prioritisation. The exercise made reference to the World be reviewed to help CLP prioritise actions to avoid and reduce
Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) negative impacts and promote opportunities to recover the
guideline, the database of Natural Capital Opportunities, Risks state of nature.
and Exposure (ENCORE) tool as well as the World Resource
Institute’s Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas particularly for water- In addition, the assessment also facilitated the
related aspects. Based on the dependencies and impact drivers identification of key areas for improvement between CLP’s
prioritised, a preliminary list of potential nature-related risks current environmental management processes and the
and opportunities was derived, providing an overall picture recommendations of TNFD. The key areas of improvement
of potential nature-related issues that CLP could potentially identified will be included in review of Group's 2025-2027 HSE
focus on. Improvement Strategy. Looking ahead, CLP will
•
Strengthen the EDD process with consideration of applying
appropriate tools to locate key biodiversity sensitive areas;
•
Conduct a site-level nature-related assessment; and
•
Review appropriate metrics for disclosures after the site-
level assessment.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 69

--- Page 70 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Introduction Governance Strategy Managing impacts, risks
and performance
Integrating circular economy principles Setting beyond compliance goals to reduce
into operations environmental discharges
CLP formed a Circular Economy Steering Committee, chaired For the purpose of driving CLP’s performance beyond
by Senior Director - Group HSE, in 2023 to drive the regulatory compliance, CLP reviewed its environmental
development and implementation of circular economy target-setting methodology to enhance performance analysis
initiatives across business functions. in terms of reducing environmental discharges.
A circular economy review study was conducted to review The updated targets focus on the percentage reduction of
CLP business processes against circular economy principles emissions sulphur dioxide (SO), nitrogen oxides (NO) and
2 x
from a project life cycle perspective and identify areas total particulate matter (total PM), freshwater consumption
of improvement. and total waste produced taking into consideration the
Group's wider decarbonisation strategy, calibrated to r eflect
CLP also reviewed the environmental target-setting process the decline of coal-fired power in CLP's asset portfolio, and
to better align with the Group’s circular economy strategy affirm the Group's commitment to ongoing improvement in
and refined waste reduction and recycling targets. For environmental performance. These new targets cover all CLP’s
details, please refer to the Waste management and material operational control assets, and the target years are set as 2025
use section. and 2030 against a baseline year of 2021 in order to track
CLP’s progress towards its medium- and long-term goals. For
To develop internal expertise and foster inter-departmental details, please refer to the Air emissions, Water and Waste
collaboration about the circular economy, training and management and material use sections.
communication sessions were conducted among project,
procurement and operation teams from different business
units. The aim is to integrate circular economy principles and
approaches into CLP’s operation and procurement practices.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 70

--- Page 71 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Introduction Governance Strategy Managing impacts, risks
and performance
Managing impacts, risks
and performance
Our approach describing the baseline conditions, evaluating the magnitude
and significance of project impacts, and investigating options
for mitigation. The assessment only contemplates offsets
Based on the environmental management tools
after considering options for avoidance, minimisation and
and processes described in the “Strategy” section,
restoration or rehabilitation.
impacts, risks and performance are managed
throughout the project cycle.
Mitigation measures will be developed based on the fi ndings
and recommendations from the EDD and EIA to address
The following sections provide a more detailed review of
adverse impacts related to biodiversity and ecosystem
how CLP manages individual nature-related issues that are
identified. These adverse impacts will be monitored and
material. CLP has also developed goals and targets that
controlled under the environmental management system
go beyond compliance to drive continual improvement,
(EMS) during the operation phase and will be reviewed on
and performance indicators to monitor the progress
a regular basis.
and effectiveness of its nature-related strategies, plans
and programmes.
Initiatives and progress
Biodiversity and ecosystem
There is no one-size-fits-all approach to managing biodiversity
impacts. CLP considers varying factors such as the location
CLP is actively contributing to nature preservation and habitat and the level of development in the vicinity of a project as
restoration activities while seeking to mitigate its impacts part of its ongoing efforts in biodiversity conservation and
on biodiversity and ecosystem services in the vicinity of land remediation.
its operations, with the Group’s goal of “no net loss of
biodiversity”. Based on the levels of regulatory controls GRI reference: 304-3, EU13
on biodiversity, CLP sets site-specific targets and initiates
ecological compensation programmes where necessary. Biodiversity enhancement programmes in 2023 included:
•
GRI reference: 304-1, 304-2, 304-4 Aquaculture and fisheries conservation
CLP Power supports marine conservation and fi sheries
Process and procedures enhancement projects through the Marine Conservation
Enhancement Fund (MCEF) and the Fisheries Enhancement
As part of the EDD, the responsible project team evaluates Fund (FEF) set up by the Hong Kong Offshore LNG Terminal
relevant biodiversity risks, focusing on the important Project in Hong Kong in 2020. To date, approximately
biodiversity areas in the vicinity. It will be supported by a HK$50.0 million has been granted to support 44 projects
qualified consultant depending on the level of complexity. under MCEF, and HK$36.8 million to support 19 projects
under FEF. Projects funded by MCEF focus on marine
The CLP Biodiversity Impact Assessment Guideline applies to conservation, habitat restoration and rehabilitation, as well
power generation, transmission and distribution, mines and as education and ecotourism. The initiatives supported by
other power-related projects. It provides a framework for FEF include fisheries education and tourism, enhancement
undertaking a systemic assessment of biodiversity impacts, of fisheries resources and sustainable fishery development.
and guidance on managing biodiversity risks. For example, A sharing session was organised in 2023 for FEF at
the Guideline enables CLP to flag any new operations that which representatives of fisheries organisations, academia
could affect the IUCN Red List of Threatened Species and and green groups shared insights into aquaculture
the relevant country’s national conservation list of threatened and fisheries conservation projects. The exchange also
species well ahead of any investment decision. served as a platform for exploring potential partnerships
and collaborations.
The biodiversity impact assessment also observes local
legislative requirements and references the International
Finance Corporation Sustainability Framework. It involves
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 71

--- Page 72 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Introduction Governance Strategy Managing impacts, risks
and performance
• •
Combatting desertification Repurposing and regeneration of nature in China
Recognising the threats to wildlife caused by d esertification CLP China seeks opportunities to restore degraded
and land degradation, CLP China has carried out annual landscapes when expanding its renewable portfolio. For
tree planting activities at the Jinchang Solar Farm in the example, at the abandoned mine site on which the Meizhou
Gobi Desert and participated in tree planting programmes Solar Farm was built, CLP China has revegetated the
organised by the local government in order to develop photovoltaic fields with plants such as miscanthus and
windbreaks and keep the sand bed steady. In 2023, about mountain beans to stabilise the soil and control water
150 trees of various species, including Sophora japonica runoff. As the plants can grow rapidly in the rainy seasons,
and Amygdalus triloba, were planted at the Xipo shelterbelt grass-proof cloth has been applied to keep the plants at
near the Jinchang Solar Power Station in support of a an optimal height so that the vegetation does not cover
local government initiative. Similar tree planting activities the photovoltaic panels. CLP China’s innovative efforts in
were carried out at other Mainland China assets, such transforming the mine sites have been recognised by the
as Lingyuan. local Government and media.
• •
Habitat restoration programme in Australia Maintaining the ecological balance of the river for
As part of its Tallawarra B new gas-fired power station operation of the Hydro Power Station in China
construction project, EnergyAustralia has established a To alleviate the adverse impacts of the Jiangbian Hydro
detailed Fauna and Flora management plan for maintaining Power Station on fish and other aquatic species in the
the populations of local species and enhancing local Jiulong River, CLP China has invested about RMB 20 million
biodiversity developed with local ecologists and indigenous since 2010 in building a fish stocking station, utilising
community groups. One outcome was an approved technical support from Sichuan Agricultural University.
Vegetation Offset Plan, involving compensatory planting Since the first stocking in 2011, 390,000 fish fry of
of about 2,000 local species for native vegetation three species have been released, helping maintain the
removed for construction. The management plan has also ecological balance of the Juilong River Basin. In addition,
protected a nearby nesting area for ospreys. In addition, during the construction and operation of the Jiangbian
EnergyAustralia has voluntarily continued the Swamp and Dali Yang'er Hydro Power Stations, the ecological
Oak Forest Endangered Ecological Community (EEC) bush discharges have been kept strictly in accordance with local
regeneration works, which involve the removal of woody environmental protection authority requirements and the
weeds and lantana. With power generation and mining set mitigation measures stipulated in the EIA report, resulting
to cease at Yallourn in 2028, EnergyAustralia has begun in healthy growth and reproduction of aquatic organisms
developing rehabilitation and remediation plans for both downstream of the power plants’ dam.
the Yallourn Power Station and the mine. The goal is to •
Promotion of nature and biodiversity
repurpose the site to provide local amenities for community
In 2023, a Go Green Programme with the theme “Cherish
development, including conservation and recreation areas.
Nature” was launched to enhance awareness of nature
Some 22.8 hectares of land at the mine was rehabilitated in
and biodiversity conservation among CLP’s Hong Kong
2023 through the sowing of native seed and pasture grass
staff. The programme comprised an online educational
to help stabilise exposed landforms.
series, with episodes introducing biodiversity concepts and
the habitats of different local species in Hong Kong.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 72

--- Page 73 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Introduction Governance Strategy Managing impacts, risks
and performance
Case Study
Fishery- and agriculture-solar yields of grapes and snakegourd fruit have been higher
than expected, a testimony to the value of making
complementation projects in
composite use of land in the Solar Farm to enhance its
Mainland China sustainable operation.
Fishery and solar complementation projects CLP’s Xicun Solar Farm has also enhanced the sustainable
involve building solar generators on the surface operation of the land used for solar panels by planting
of ponds, thus combining space for fish farming honeysuckle under the panels. Soil erosion can occur
and solar power generation. The photovoltaic during the rainy season in the area, and the honeysuckle
modules help to reduce the water surface helps to stabilise the soil and prevent erosion while at the
temperature to a certain extent, preventing loss same time enhancing the utilisation of land.
of aquaculture due to high water temperatures
and improving the growth and feeding of fi sh.
Traditional aquaculture only obtains aquaculture
products and delivers a single source of income.
Fishery and solar complementation projects
utilise available resources more efficiently and
can increase farmers’ income.
CLP’s Sihong Solar Power Station in Mainland China
is a fishery-solar hybrid power plant which illustrates
fishery and solar complementation. CLP has continued
to optimise the power station’s facilities for aquaculture
by constructing waterproof dams, improving anti-evasion
facilities, improving water diversion facilities during dry
seasons, and inviting aquatic experts to conduct on-
site inspections and provide guidance to contractors.
Continuous development and experimentation with the Crabs and crayfish being released at Sihong Solar Power Station.
help of aquaculture experts has led to the production of
crabs and crayfish exceeding expectations. It is planned
to launch the second phase of fish farming next year,
which will involve expanding the scale of operations and
improving the overall utilisation rate of the site. The result
will be a sustainable operation that blends ecological
aquaculture with solar power generation.
Agriculture-solar complementation projects involve
carrying out agricultural activity on solar sites, a process
which can rebuild biodiversity and safeguard the health of
local ecosystems. CLP’s Huai'an Solar Farm has continued
to implement agriculture-photovoltaic complementation
initiatives. These have involved creating a good growing
environment for crops, increasing the number of drainage
ditches and culverts in solar farm areas, and repairing
some agricultural greenhouses. Agricultural experts have Part of the fruit harvest at Huai'an Solar Farm.
also been invited to provide on-site guidance. The harvest
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 73

--- Page 74 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Introduction Governance Strategy Managing impacts, risks
and performance
Air emissions generation technologies. These new technologies produce
electricity more efficiently, thus assisting in further lowering
air pollutants and GHG emissions.
CLP strives to reduce the air pollutants emitted from its
operations while expanding its renewable and nuclear energy
Initiatives and progress
portfolio. Achieving further emission reductions from existing
fossil fuel power stations remains a high priority.
CLP is dedicated to managing its fuel mix and applying various
mitigation measures to combat climate change and improve
Process and procedures
the air quality of the regions where it operates.
For new projects, CLP assesses risks related to air emissions
SASB reference: If-EU-120a.1; GRI reference: 305-7
through an EDD and carries out an EIA at the project design
and construction stage. CLP is also conscious of the air
Coal-fired power plants, such as Yallourn, Mount Piper and
emission level of its fossil fuel power stations in operation.
Castle Peak Power Stations, are the main contributors to
The associated environmental risks and impacts are properly
the Group's air emissions, and the emissions metrics are
managed by a robust EMS.
heavily influenced by the performance of these plants. CLP
has remained committed to improving air quality in the
According to the CLP Group HSEMS, the coal-fired and
areas where it operates, and proceeding along the path
gas-fired power plants under CLP's operational control are
towards decarbonisation. In 2023, CLP reviewed the target-
required to operate within CLP’s prescribed limits on SO,
2 setting process and refined its emissions targets to r eflect
NO and total PM, or they must fully comply with local
x the upcoming retirement of CLP's fossil fuel plants. CLP has
regulations, whichever is more stringent. The air emissions
set group-wide medium- and long-term emissions targets for
(NO, SO and total PM) from the coal-fired and combined cycle
x 2 the years 2025 and 2030 in terms of percentage reduction
gas turbine power stations under its operational control are
of emission quantities for NO, SO and PM against the base
monitored by continuous emissions monitoring systems. CLP x 2
year of 2021 with the ultimate target of zero emissions.
is also cognisant of the increasing focus on mercury emissions
The emission targets scope covers all power plants under
from coal-fired power plants and has monitored and reported
operational control.
mercury quantities from its coal-fired power plants since 2021.
The 2023 results related to the emission targets and progress
In addition to incorporating state-of-the-art air emissions
are shown in the following table:
mitigation measures into its plant management, CLP has
also designed new gas-fired power stations with advanced
Target Range by
Nature metrics Pollution Reduction 2023 Results 2023 Progress Target by end 2030
end 2025
NO emissions -29% In line -20% to -30% -50%
x
Emissions (Impact
SO emissions -23% In line -15% to -20% -55%
driver) 2
PM emissions -12% In line -10% to -15% -90%
In 2023, CLP cut emissions of NO, SO and PM by 29%, 23% Further to the divestment of a majority stake in
x 2
and 12% respectively compared with the baseline year of 2021 Fangchenggeng coal-fired Power Station in Mainland
which was in line with the emission target setting and even China and excluding India’s assets, particularly the coal-
ahead of the target set for SO. fired plant Jhajjar, the overall emissions quantities were
2
significantly reduced.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 74

--- Page 75 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Introduction Governance Strategy Managing impacts, risks
and performance
With CLP’s strategy of fuel diversification and through System (PM-CEMS) has enabled to the provision of real-
continually maintaining the effectiveness of emission control time and accurate data for emission control and hence
facilities, emissions can be further reduced. contributed to a reduction of dust this year.
•
Educating and empowering operators on emissions
Key initiatives and programmes in 2023 included:
monitoring and control
CLP understands that its operators must have the
•
Advanced air emission control systems
awareness and capability to control emissions and prevent
CLP has been implementing various air emission control
emission exceedances. Further to the development of
measures with advanced emissions reduction technology
operation procedures for responding to unusually high
in its fossil fuel plants. In Hong Kong, CLP Power
emissions, operators in Hong Kong will be given Air
continued to optimise its fuel mix and deploy advanced
Emission Licence Training every two years, including
technology to ensure its compliance with pollution control
training on procedures for corrective and preventive
requirements. A second additional gas-fired generation
actions if unusually high emissions occur. In Australia,
unit, D2, is expected to go into service at Black Point
similar training will be provided regularly to operators. In
Power Station in 2024, with controls in place to reduce NO
x 2023, specific response training for operators on reacting
emissions through selective catalytic reduction technology.
to emission exceedance warnings were conducted in
The technology has already helped reduce emissions
Jeeralang Power Station.
in the power station’s D1 unit. In India, in addition
•
Control of fugitive GHG emissions from
to Flue Gas Desulphurisation (FGD) deployed at Jhajjar
electrical equipment
Power Station to reduce SO, PM and mercury (Hg)
2
Electric utilities usually rely on sulphur hexafluoride gas
emissions, a combination of Electrostatic Precipitator (ESP)
(SF) for electrical insulation in high voltage equipment due
and Fabric Filter is being used to further reduce PM 6
to its excellent insulation properties. However, SF is a
emissions. Furthermore, a combination of low NO burners 6
x
potent GHG with very high global warming potential. CLP
and the Separated Over Fire Air System (SOFA) is being
is endeavouring to reduce its SF emissions by making
used to further reduce NO emissions. 6
x
its operations more efficient, undertaking maintenance
•
Upgrade of emissions monitoring systems
measures on SF equipment, and taking immediate
CLP continuously reviews its emissions monitoring system 6
corrective actions when any SF leakage from equipment
to align with industry best practices in air emissions 6
due to defects is noted. In 2023, CLP completed a fi eld
controls. At Yallourn Power Station, the Continuous
trial of non-SF gas switchgears at the distribution level,
Emissions Monitoring System (CEMS) has been upgraded 6
and will review the results for the future development of
to enhance emissions monitoring. Yallourn activated its
non-SF gas equipment at the distribution and transmission
upgraded CEMS in 2023, covering NO, SO and CO. In 6
x 2 levels. CLP will continue to explore measures for reducing
addition, real time dust monitoring stations were installed
SF emissions from electrical equipment, and introducing
on the perimeter at Yallourn to enhance dust monitoring 6
sustainable alternatives.
and control. At Mount Piper Power Station, the introduction
of the Particulate Matter Continuous Emissions Monitoring
Group-level air emissions
The overall total emissions in 2023 decreased mainly due to divestment of a majority stake in Fangchenggeng c oal-fired
Power Station in Mainland China and excluding India’s assets, particularly the coal-fired Jhajjar Power Station.
)tk(
sennotoliK
75
60 52.7
45 47.0 44.7 43.2 48.0 45.7 43.5 48.9 40.6
32.3
30
15 7.7 6.9 7.6 6.8 6.7
0
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
NO SO Total PM
x 2
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 75

--- Page 76 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Introduction Governance Strategy Managing impacts, risks
and performance
Case Study
Improving Hong Kong’s Air Quality and Supporting its Long-term
Decarbonisation Target through the Hong Kong Offshore L iquefied
Natural Gas (LNG) Terminal Project
The Hong Kong Offshore Liquefied Natural Gas Natural gas is a relatively clean fossil fuel and an
(LNG) Terminal Project commenced operation important bridge transition fuel for meeting the HKSAR
in July 2023. The project is enhancing Hong Government’s long-term decarbonisation targets as
Kong’s fuel supply stability by adding new supply outlined in its Climate Action Plan 2050. The amount
sources for natural gas, while also reducing power of carbon dioxide emitted by natural gas is only around
generation emissions and facilitating the city’s half of that given off by coal, so this initiative is helping
energy transition to carbon neutrality by 2050. reduce emissions from power generation by increasing the
percentage of natural gas used for power generation and
The project gives Hong Kong access to more diverse reducing carbon intensity in the city.
sources of competitively priced LNG in the global market,
enhancing the city’s gas supply security.
The LNG terminal, located in the southwestern waters of
Hong Kong, uses Floating Storage and Regasification Unit
(FSRU) technology to regasify LNG before the natural gas
is delivered to power stations through undersea pipelines.
The terminal is connected to the world’s largest FSRU
vessel, the Bauhinia Spirit. It has an LNG storage capacity
of 263,000 cubic metres, sufficient to meet the electricity
needs of 1.5 million three-member households for two
months based on an average usage of 275 units of
The Hong Kong Offshore Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) Terminal.
electricity a month.
Illustration of the operation of the Hong Kong Offshore Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) Terminal.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 76

--- Page 77 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Introduction Governance Strategy Managing impacts, risks
and performance
Waste management and material use CLP monitors waste generation on a monthly basis by tracking
the solid and liquid forms of hazardous and non-hazardous
waste produced and recycled at its facilities.
CLP strives to integrate circular economy principles across
the project lifecycle to explore opportunities for minimising
All ash impoundments from CLP-owned plants (i.e. the various
material use and waste disposal. It follows a waste
ash lagoons at Castle Peak Power Station in Hong Kong and
management hierarchy (i.e. prevent, reduce, reuse, replace,
Yallourn Power Station in Australia) have been reviewed and
recycle, treat and dispose) which prioritises the most preferred
are considered as having low hazard potential and satisfactory
actions that minimise waste generation in daily operations.
structural integrity.
SASB reference: IF-EU-150a.1 and IF-EU-150a.2; GRI reference: 301-2, 306-1,
Initiatives and progress
306-2, 306-3, 306-4, 306-5
CLP has implemented various measures to reduce waste and
Process and procedures
increase reuse and recycling during electricity generation and
other operations.
Across the project lifecycle, CLP seeks to avoid using
hazardous materials and replaces them with alternatives
It recycles its hazardous and non-hazardous solid and liquid
wherever possible based on the existing environmental
waste where feasible, and sells by-products such as ash and
management tools.
gypsum for reuse in other industries.
Through the EDD and EIA during the project design and
Individual assets generate different types of waste. C oal-fired
construction stage, and the EMS during the operation stage, all
assets are the main contributors of waste, accounting for
hazardous and non-hazardous waste is managed properly
about 90% of the Group's total waste generated. The amount
for reducing waste and promoting recycling as well as
of waste produced and recycled is not directly related to
ensuring waste disposal in accordance with local regulations.
the amount of electricity sent out, but can be affected by
CLP prioritises waste reduction and then reuse and recycle
maintenance and construction activities as well as local waste
rather than disposal following the waste management
facilities and treatment practices.
hierarchy. When hazardous waste has to be collected for
recycling or disposal, it will be handled by licensed contractors
CLP set the group-wide medium- and long-term waste targets
in accordance with the local regulatory requirements.
for the years 2025 and 2030 in terms of a percentage
reduction of total waste produced, including by-products
The main operational by-products of CLP’s coal-fired power
produced by the coal-fired power plants, against the base
stations are coal ash from coal combustion and gypsum
year of 2021. In addition, waste targets for the year 2025 of
from the flue gas desulphurisation process. CLP actively
100% were set for the recycling of Waste Electrical & Electronic
manages these by-products generated from coal-fired power
Equipment (WEEE), scrap rechargeable batteries, scrap metals
stations according to the waste management processes and
and inert construction waste, and for the removal of single-use
procedures outlined in the EMS. Rather than disposing of
plastics in catering facilities.
them, CLP endeavours to reuse them for construction and
other applications in line with circular economy principles and
In 2023, total waste products from the Group’s operation was
in accordance with local regulations and practices.
reduced by 71% compared with the target-setting baseline
year of 2021 which was slightly ahead of the waste target set
While the quantities of solid and liquid waste generated by
for 2030.
regular CLP operations is relatively small, projects involving
demolition and construction usually increase the amount
The decrease was contributed by various waste management
of non-hazardous solid waste which will be addressed and
initiatives at the assets and the divestment of a majority stake
monitored under the EMS.
in Fangchenggeng coal-fired power station in Mainland China
and the exclusion of India's assets, particularly the c oal-fired
CLP is also driving behavioural changes among its employees
Jhajjar Power Station.
by setting up recycling facilities at power stations and
office premises, and providing e-learning courses on circular
Coal ash from coal combustion and gypsum from the flue gas
economy principles and waste management.
desulphurisation process are still the main waste products.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 77

--- Page 78 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Introduction Governance Strategy Managing impacts, risks
and performance
The Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE), scrap or recycling opportunities and initiatives from a project cycle
rechargeable batteries, scrap metal and inert construction perspective, aiming to continue improving waste recovery
waste were fully recycled and single-use plastics used in value and enhancing the circularity of products and materials.
catering facilities were also removed in 2023, based on
local regulatory policies and infrastructure available for The waste target scope covers all CLP’s operational control
recycling. Looking ahead, CLP will continue to refine the assets. The 2023 results relating to the waste targets and their
waste management process and look for waste reduction progress are shown in the following table:
Nature metrics Pollution Reduction 2023 Results 2023 Progress Target by end 2025 Target by end 2030
Waste products1 -71% In line -65% -70%
Recycling of Waste Electrical &
100% In line 100% --
Electronic Equipment (WEEE)
Waste Recycling of rechargeable batteries 100% In line 100% --
(Impact driver) Recycling of scrap metal 100% In line 100% --
Recycling of inert construction waste 100% In line 100% --
Removal of single-use plastics in
100% In line 100% --
catering facilities
1 Waste products include total waste produced from operation and maintenance activities and by-products produced by the coal-fired power plants
Key programmes and initiatives in 2023 included: marine sediment dredged at the project site in a soil
mix suitable for mangrove planting, minimising marine
•
Collaboration with stakeholders and partners on the sediment dumping into the sea.
initiatives to increase waste recovery in Hong Kong •
Second Life for Used Photovoltaic Components
CLP Power collaborated with local recyclers in the full
and Batteries
recycling of scrap metal, WEEE, rechargeable industrial
Lingyuan Solar Farm used its spent photovoltaic modules
batteries, lubricating oil and transformer oil. It also worked
and some spent rechargeable batteries provided by Qian’an
with the Hong Kong government to recycle yard waste from
Wind Farm to set up a power supply for lighting plant areas.
Hong Kong’s power stations, recycling about 4,000kg and
This initiative gave a second life to the used equipment and
2,500kg of yard waste following the annual tree trimming
reduced waste, while also reducing power consumption at
exercises at Black Point Power Station and Castle Peak
the plant.
Power Station respectively. In addition, Castle Peak Power
•
Promoting the circular economy and engaging staff in
Station collaborated with a local chemical processing and
recycling efforts in CLP Power Hong Kong
treatment company to treat and reuse all boiler chemical
CLP Power Hong Kong has developed recycling guidelines
cleaning solution on site in 2023. As a result, there was no
and established new waste recycling targets for its
disposal of any hazardous liquid waste generated from the
generation and power system business units, and
boiler chemical clean project in 2023.
encouraged staff engagement in these recycling efforts.
•
Beneficial Reuse of Marine Sediment in Hong Kong
Also, an online platform was created where internal
CLP Power’s Hong Kong Offshore Liquefied Natural Gas
colleagues could list used furniture and find potential reuse
Terminal (HKOLNGT) Project collaborated with various
opportunities within different departments.
Hong Kong government departments to reuse suitable
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 78

--- Page 79 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Introduction Governance Strategy Managing impacts, risks
and performance
Ash and gypsum by-products recycled or sold
The total amount of ash and gypsum by-products recycled or sold decreased in 2023 due to the divestment of
Fangchenggeng Power Station, while the ash and gypsum from Jhajjar Power Station were no longer included in the
total as Apraava Energy is no longer a wholly-owned subsidiary.
)tk(
sennotoliK
4,500
4,000
3,667
3,500
3,000
2,501
2,500 2,365
2,000 1,793
1,500
1,000
500 438 335 365 280 328
61
0
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
Ash Gypsum
Hazardous waste produced and recycled
The total amount of hazardous waste produced increased while recycling decreased was mainly caused by the disposal
of hazardous wastes from a remediation Project at Yallourn Power Station.
)t(
sennoT
7,500
5,551
5,000
2,440 2,595 2,541
2,500
1,972
1,736 1,592 1,467 1,290
1,015
0
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
Hazardous waste produced Hazardous waste recycled
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 79

--- Page 80 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Introduction Governance Strategy Managing impacts, risks
and performance
Non-hazardous waste produced and recycled
Compared to 2022, the variation of the non-hazardous waste produced and recycled was due to normal operational
fluctuation from plant activities.
)t(sennoT
30,000
24,546
25,000
20,000
17,904
15,000
13,404
12,725 12,326
10,000
7,940
6,744
5,043
5,000 4,461 4,279
0
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
Non-hazardous waste produced Non-hazardous waste recycled
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 80

--- Page 81 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Introduction Governance Strategy Managing impacts, risks
and performance
Case Study
Jhajjar introduces Waste Recovery Jhajjar is working towards paperless office status through
digitalisation, implementing various digital systems such
Programmes according to Circular
as a Management of Change System, Gate Pass Processing
Economy Principles System, Invoice Tracking System, Vehicle Booking System
and others.
Jhajjar Power Station strives to achieve ‘Zero
Waste to Landfill’ by adopting circular economy Jhajjar has also striven to eliminate single-use plastic in
principles and implementing various reuse and its sites, implementing initiatives such as adding water
recycling initiatives to minimise waste. dispensers at sites, replacing plastic bottles with glass
and distributing cotton bags and steel bottles to contract
A key measure has involved maximising the reuse of staff. It has been validated by the Confederation of Indian
waste generated from operations (e.g. metallic waste, Industry and certified as a single-use plastic free site. It
rubber conveyor belts, electronic cards, and actuators) has also achieved Zero Waste to Landfill certification by
for secondary purposes on site. An expert agency the Confederation of Indian Industry, indicating that it
was engaged to implement proper waste management has implemented waste management practises that have
measures and install material recovery facilities to resulted in over 90% of waste being diverted from landfills.
enhance waste recovery. These included a Vibro-feeder,
which helps in sorting waste through the use of a conveyor
to separate inert materials like soil or dust from dry solid
waste, and a Baler machine, a hydraulic pressing machine
that compresses solid waste such as PET bottles.
Example of material reuse in Jhajjar Power Station.
Vibro-Feeder used at the Material Recovery Facility at Jhajjar
Power Station.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 81

--- Page 82 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Introduction Governance Strategy Managing impacts, risks
and performance
Water water sensitivity, water stress mapping, potential competing
use with other stakeholders, and the management strategies
in each region. Where a water supply risk is identified, the
The CLP Group uses seawater cooling or water
Company engages with local stakeholders to understand their
recirculation processes in its generation plants
needs and with local water suppliers to mitigate or resolve the
to minimise water consumption and related
issue. The latest assessments across the Group indicate that
environmental impacts.
current water supply regimes are stable and the overall risk of
substantial impact is minimal.
SASB reference: IF-EU-140a.3; GRI reference: 303-1, 303-2
The quality of CLP’s water discharges must also meet licensing
Process and procedures
and regulatory standards. Under CLP’s EMS, the adverse
impacts of water discharges are identified, monitored and
Most water withdrawal and discharge in CLP’s operations is
controlled under programmes which are reviewed on a regular
by fossil fuel plants using once-through seawater cooling. In
basis. Specific emergency response plans have also been
this process, large quantities of seawater are used for cooling
developed to prevent and address the spillage or leakage of
and then returned to the sea, with only a slight increase in
pollutants. As a result of the wastewater treatment processes
water temperature. The total volume of water withdrawal and
put in place, none of CLP's operations has material impact on
discharge is dependent on the total electricity generated.
the associated water bodies.
CLP strives to reduce the amount of fresh water it uses for its
To monitor its water-use efficiency, CLP tracks its freshwater
operations. CLP’s power stations carry out a range of water
withdrawal, discharge and intensity (based on electricity
conservation initiatives depending on their site conditions,
sent out). Internal targets are set each year to encourage
operational situation and age. The amount of water which can
continuous improvement in water management practices. CLP
be recycled also depends on factors such as location, power
also participates in the CDP water security questionnaire. By
station design and local regulatory requirements.
sharing water resource management data through the survey,
CLP is able to benchmark its practices against industry peers.
There are two major water concerns that affect CLP. One is
that water use in its power plants may impact local water
Initiatives and progress
quality and contribute to local water scarcity. To address
this, environmental impact assessments are carried out at
CLP has taken further steps to improve water management
the planning stage of new projects, in accordance with
and reduce water discharge-related impacts in its
local requirements, to ensure that any water use impacts
daily operations.
associated with project construction and plant operation are
managed and mitigated to an acceptable level.
In 2023, CLP reviewed its environmental target-setting
process and refined its water targets to reflect the upcoming
The second concern is water security at CLP’s fossil fuel and
retirement of CLP’s fossil fuel plants. CLP has set group-wide
hydropower generation assets. Four of CLP's six fossil fuel
medium- and long-term freshwater consumption targets for
plants under operational control use seawater for cooling.
the years 2025 and 2030 in terms of a percentage reduction
Where seawater cooling is not feasible, CLP strives to minimise
of freshwater consumption quantities against the base year of
its freshwater use and adopt water recirculation processes.
2021. It has set an ambitious freshwater consumption target
Solar farms also use water for the cleaning of solar panels, but
comprising an absolute reduction of 45% to 55% by 2025, using
the amount required is comparatively small. These measures
2021 as the baseline.
help limit the risks caused by water security issues.
The freshwater consumption target covers all CLP’s
CLP assesses water risks for its new projects through
operational control assets. The 2023 results related to the
systematic environmental due diligence, and annually using
water target and the progress made are shown in the
globally recognised tools such as WRI Aqueduct. Its
following table:
assessments cover parameters such as water availability,
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 82

--- Page 83 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Introduction Governance Strategy Managing impacts, risks
and performance
Target Range by
Nature metrics Pollution Reduction 2023 Results 2023 Progress Target by end 2030
end 2025
Water
Freshwater
-71% In line -45 to -55% -85%
consumption
(Dependencies)
SASB reference: IF-EU-140a.1; GRI reference: 303-3, 303-4, 303-5 robotic solar panel dry cleaning system has also been
utilised at Apraava’s solar farms in India to minimise
In 2023, CLP reduced the freshwater consumption by 71% water use and improve the energy yield of the solar
compared with the baseline year of 2021 which was ahead of panels. In 2023, field trials were conducted involving
the target set for 2025. a combination of robotic dry cleaning and current wet
cleaning of solar panels to validate water savings and
The decrease was contributed by various water conservation measure improvements in energy yield. The trial result
initiatives from the assets and the divestment of a majority was encouraging, with the performance improvement in
stake in Fangchenggeng coal-fired Power Station in Mainland terms of energy gain measured at about 1.2 %, in line
China and the exclusion of India’s assets, particularly the with market experience when achieving water savings.
coal-fired Jhajjar Power Station. Going forward, dry cleaning of solar panels will be used
at Apraava’s solar farms if feasible. Water recharging pits
CLP will continue to track the volume of water recycling have also been constructed at all Apraava’s solar farms, for
in its power stations for continual improvement and share rainwater harvesting.
good practices across the Group to maximise the benefit of •
Initiatives to prevent wastewater spillage and reduce
individual power stations' efforts.
freshwater consumption in Australia
In Australia, EnergyAustralia completed extensive repair
Best practice examples of CLP’s water management are
and maintenance works to the Morwell River Diversion in
summarised below:
Victoria state, which was damaged by heightened water
flows following exceptionally heavy rainfall in June 2021.
•
Rainwater harvest system at Hong Kong substations
This greatly prevents the overflow of the Morwell River
In new electricity substations in Hong Kong, rainwater
which could flood the mine of Yallourn Power Station
harvest systems including water recycling tanks and
and contaminate the water bodies nearby. In addition,
automatic drip irrigation systems will be installed to reduce
Jeeralang Power Station installed an oil detection system in
freshwater consumption where feasible.
the stormwater outlet to prevent oil spillages.
•
Upgrading the water treatment plant on circular economy
principles at Black Point Power Station The Springvale Water Treatment Plant continued to meet
A project to expand the capacity of the water treatment about 80% of the daily water needs at Mount Piper
plant at Hong Kong’s Black Point Power Station (BPPS) was Power Station, significantly reducing the need to source
completed in 2023. The project has increased the capacity freshwater and hence reducing freshwater consumption.
of the water treatment plant through Reserve Osmosis •
Increase of water use efficiency in India
(RO) technology, which reduces the amount of wastewater
Jhajjar Power Station has been progressively improving
compared to that of traditional water treatment plants that
water use efficiency at its site through continual
utilise chemical processes. This reduction in wastewater is
improvement measures involving enhancements to the
not only reducing the use of chemicals but also enhancing
cycles of concentration with advanced chemical treatment
the overall water processing efficiency of the system.
in its cooling water system. In March 2023, Jhajjar Power
•
Reduction of water wastage through innovative Station won an award for excellence in water use e fficiency
technology in India and Mainland China’s solar farms in a programme organised by the Energy and Resources
Robotic cleaning systems have been deployed in CLP Institute, the International Water Association and the
China’s solar farms to reduce water consumption, and a United Nations Development Programme.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 83

--- Page 84 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Introduction Governance Strategy Managing impacts, risks
and performance
Freshwater Balance
Freshwater consumption and consumption from water stressed areas
The total amount of freshwater consumption decreased in 2023 mainly due to the divestment of Fangchenggeng Power
Station, while water consumption for Apraava Energy’s operations, particularly Jhajjar Power Station, was no longer
included in the total as it is no longer a wholly-owned subsidiary.
12.0
2023
0.01
31.3
2022
16.5
41.5
2021
17.2
0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45
Million cubic metres (Mm3)
Total freshwater consumption of CLP Group's power generation
Total freshwater consumption under water stressed areas
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 84

--- Page 85 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Introduction Governance Strategy Managing impacts, risks
and performance
Case Study
Reducing water consumption through the Castle Peak Power Station
(CPPS)’s Process Water Treatment Project
Power generation involves the use of large The process water recycling treatment system was
volumes of water, so improving water installed to treat process water and enable recycling
management is a key way to reduce water in CPPS following the surrender of the Tsang Tsui Ash
consumption. A project to enhance the existing Lagoon (TTAL) to the government. Wastewater treated
process water management facilities at CPPS was by this system will be suitable for reuse at the plant. In
begun in 2020 and completed in 2023. addition, with this new system, the water management
process at CPPS no longer depends on the TTAL. The land
will be released for alternative land for the benefit of
the community.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 85

--- Page 86 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Serving
Our Stakeholders
Customers 87
Our people 116
Partners 133
Community 150

--- Page 87 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Customers Our people Partners Community
Customers
Overview
Areas of stakeholder interest Relevant sustainability agenda
•
Customer portfolio Energy growth opportunities
•
Access to reliable energy •
• Creating new revenue streams as other sectors electrify
Asset management
•
Energy services and solutions Energy security and reliability
•
Customer privacy
•
• Providing customers with reliable and reasonably-priced energy
Customer satisfaction
•
Security management Business resilience
•
Physical security
•
• Reinforcing cyber resilience and data protection
Cyber security
•
Emergency and crisis management
Outcome for stakeholders
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 87

--- Page 88 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Customers Our people Partners Community
Customer portfolio CLP Power is the sole electricity provider for Kowloon, the
New Territories and most of the outlying islands in Hong Kong.
It serves close to 2.8 million customers and approximately
CLP operates retail businesses in Hong Kong and Australia,
80% of Hong Kong’s households. Total electricity sold in 2023
each characterised by distinct market structures, regulatory
was 35,392GWh.
requirements, electricity demand, customer preferences and
cultural norms. In 2023, the number of customer accounts in
Despite its status as a mature market, Hong Kong continues to
residential, commercial and infrastructure and public service
experience growing demand for electricity. This is largely being
sectors increased but decreased in the manufacturing sector.
driven by territory-wide development and infrastructure
However, there was an overall increase in the commercial and
projects, as well as new local railway infrastructure projects.
industrial (C&I) sectors.
Hong Kong is also being targeted as a prime location for
energy-intensive data centres, so there is a need to ensure
SASB reference: IF-EU-000.A; GRI reference: EU3
highly reliable power supplies are available to support the
development of the data centre industry.
Hong Kong customer breakdown
The number of customer accounts has continued to grow gradually over the last five years, mainly from the
residential sector.
2023
2022
2021
2020
2019
0 500,000 1,000,000 1,500,000 2,000,000 2,500,000 3,000,000
Number of customer accounts
Commercial Manufacturing Residential Infrastructure and public services
Hong Kong customer breakdown
(number of customer accounts) 2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
Commercial 214,616 212,251 210,821 208,150 206,792
Manufacturing 16,923 17,191 17,427 17,540 17,575
Residential 2,439,557 2,407,225 2,369,217 2,333,901 2,301,200
Infrastructure and public services 118,548 115,404 113,956 112,245 110,841
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 88

--- Page 89 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Customers Our people Partners Community
EnergyAustralia operates as a retail energy provider, selling Wales and Victoria. Commercial accounts declined the most,
electricity and gas to customers in New South Wales, however, this was largely due to a reclassification of several
Victoria, South Australia, the Australian Capital Territory counterparties into mass market figures. This did not affect
and Queensland (electricity only). It is among approximately profitability with the Commercial and Industrial team posting
30 retailers active in the key markets of New South a record contribution.
Australian customer breakdown
In 2023, total customer accounts declined by 0.8% or around 20,000 accounts. Heavy competitor discounting of Default
Market Offers in different NEM states at various points in the year was more prominent compared with previous years.
The number of commercial customers in 2022 has been revised due to classification updates.
2023 2,437,590 3,870
2022 2,453,797 8,740
2021 2,435,475 7,208
2020 2,440,439 8,962
2019 2,468,182 12,599
0 500,000 1,000,000 1,500,000 2,000,000 2,500,000 3,000,000
Number of customer accounts
Mass market Commercial
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 89

--- Page 90 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Customers Our people Partners Community
•
Access to reliable energy Adopting advanced technology (such as smart grid
technology) and implementing demand-side management
measures to reduce growth in demand and optimise the
Our approach
utilisation of existing assets;
•
High availability and reliability of the electricity supply Moving to condition-based maintenance by monitoring and
are critical for the business operations of CLP's corporate timely assessing the condition of critical power supply
customers and the daily lives of the Group's retail equipment in order to formulate effective preventive
customers. Availability and reliability are therefore two key maintenance plans. At the same time, CLP also makes
performance metrics that track CLP’s ability to meet its reference to international standards and industry good
commitments to customers. practices to continuously ehance its asset performance;
•
Expanding the use of instruments for conducting online
GRI reference: EU10 monitoring of critical power supply equipment so as to
analyse the health status of power supply equipment and to
Goals and targets customise appropriate maintenance plans;
CLP calculates the availability factor for its generation assets •
Actively exploring various innovative technologies that
in terms of the amount of time that the asset is able to produce
could assist CLP's routine inspection and maintenance
full load equivalent electricity over a period, divided by the
work, such as robots, aerial cameras, and big data to
amount of time in that period. Typical values range from 70%
optimise resources and enhance work efficiency;
to 90%. CLP aims to maintain an availability range of 90% and
•
above for its newer assets. Developing a well-trained and competent workforce for
operating and maintaining the system.
Targets for each asset are set annually and are included in the
business plan. Performance is reported on a weekly basis to In addition to recruiting professionals from the market, CLP
senior management. Any significant variances in performance also trains young engineering talents through systematic
are analysed and appropriate corrective action taken. training schemes. In particular, CLP has established the CLP
Power Academy since 2017 to collaborate with overseas and
Strategies and procedures local tertiary institutions to train electrical and mechanical
While CLP has generation businesses across the A sia-Pacific engineering professionals for building a healthy succussion
region, Hong Kong is the only location where its business pipeline for the power industry.
is vertically integrated, so that it provides generation,
transmission and distribution of power as well as retail To guarantee the availability and dependability of its power
services. CLP Power is regulated by the Hong Kong SAR supply, CLP is working to strengthen its technological
Government under the Scheme of Control (SoC) Agreement, capabilities and enhance organisational development across
which requires the Company to provide a sufficient and the Group. Departments collaborate to design for an
reliable electricity supply at a reasonable price and in an integrated management framework by sharing insights gained
environmentally responsible manner. from regional experiences. This procedure is lowering the
Group's overall operations risk and contributing to improved
In Hong Kong, CLP Power employs various measures portfolio management.
to maintain high supply availability and high reliability.
These include: A number of innovative projects to promote availability
and reliability are currently being pursued in the areas
•
Regularly upgrading its generation and network facilities to of robotics, asset health, video analytics, energy storage,
meet increasing electricity demand; building information modelling and automation. These
• projects have been initiated by third parties and CLP's own
Maintaining sufficient generating capacity to meet forecast
engineers, who develop innovations based on their own
demand as well as to cope with both planned and
operational experience.
unforeseen outages;
•
Developing an additional and economically viable gas
supply option that strengthens energy security by
providing access to competitive gas supplies from global
markets using Floating Storage and Regasification Unit
(FSRU) technology;
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 90

--- Page 91 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Customers Our people Partners Community
Transmission network In India, Apraava Energy carries out regular predictive
To keep pace with the territorial development of Hong and corrective maintenance of its transmission assets.
Kong, CLP conducts an annual review of future transmission This includes pre-emptive check-ups and assessments on
network developments. This involves studying the latest operational clearances, to ensure that its assets are well
system maximum demand forecast, as well as reviewing structured and maintained with proper setup, hardware and
area load growth, infrastructure development and generation security. Frequent site patrols are carried out when conducting
development, and planning accordingly. assessments for landscape and assets, and the assessment
results are used to identify defects and develop plans for
Annual maintenance and improvement programmes have shutdowns if needed.
been developed for major transmission assets based on an
analysis of current conditions along with the performance of Apraava Energy utilises a mobile application for the real-time
the assets, levels of investment, and risk. tracking of site patrols, which has shortened the response
time needed for making rectifications. The site patrol team
The power supply network is highly vulnerable to damage uses thermographic cameras to help locate defects through
from extreme climate events, which could potentially cause heat mapping.
service disruptions. In response, CLP is continuing to introduce
a range of measures to improve the reliability of its power Plans are in place to use drones for site patrols, though ground
supply network. teams will be retained at strategic locations to ensure a speedy
response to any damage to critical assets.
Find out more in the CLP's Climate Vision 2050:
Powering an orderly transition
Initiatives and progress Disconnections for CLP Power Hong Kong Limited
In Hong Kong, CLP maintained its world-class supply reliability The total number of disconnections1,2 for Hong Kong
percentage of over 99.999%, surpassing the ratings of customers3 was 6,520 in 2023, representing an
other major international cities such as London, New York increase of 34% compared to 2022 with 4,859 cases.
and Sydney.
2023
SASB reference: IF-EU-240a.3, IF-EU-240a.4, IF-EU-550a.2, IF-EU-000.C; GRI
reference: 203-1, EU4, EU12, EU26, EU27, EU28, EU29, EU30 2022
2021
CLP’s transmission and distribution network in Hong Kong
serves approximately 80% of the city’s overall population. At 2020
the end of 2023, CLP Power had approximately 16,920 km of
2019
circuits at medium or higher voltage. In addition, there were
241 primary and 15,539 secondary substations operating in 0 2,000 4,000 6,000 8,000
Hong Kong. As of 2023, the average network loss for the past Number of disconnections
five years was 3.44%, slightly lower than the five-year average
of 3.51% reported in 2022. 0 - 2 days 3 - 7 days
8 - 31 days ≥ 32 days
CLP uses a set of universally recognised supply reliability
performance indicators from the Institute of Electrical and 1 Total number refers to the disconnection orders completed due to heavily
Electronics Engineers standard (IEEE 1366-2012) to monitor overdue payments.
2 Days refers to the number of days required from the issuance of the
its system performance. It reports CLP’s performance against
disconnection orders to the completion of the disconnection orders.
these indicators annually to the Hong Kong Government. 3 Customers include residential and commercial & industrial customers in
Hong Kong.
In India, Apraava Energy achieved 100% availability for
its Satpura Transco Private Limited asset and 99.86%
availability for its Kohima-Mariani Transmission Limited asset
for transmission of electricity to customers in 2023.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 91

--- Page 92 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Customers Our people Partners Community
Comparison of reliability levels between cities
Supply reliability performance indicators and results for CLP Power
Indicator Result
System Average Interruption Frequency Index (SAIFI)
•
The average number of supply interruptions for each customer served. The three-year average SAIFI (2021–2023) was 0.27, meaning
Both planned and unplanned interruptions are included. customers experienced a power interruption approximately once
in four years during this period. This remained the same as last year’s
three-year rolling average.
System Average Interruption Duration Index (SAIDI)
•
The average duration of interruptions each customer may encounter in The three-year average SAIDI (2021–2023) was 0.29 hours, including
a given year. both planned and unplanned interruptions. This was slightly lower
than last year’s three-year rolling average of 0.30.
Unplanned Customer Minutes Lost (Unplanned CML)
•
The average duration of unplanned power interruptions per customer in The three-year rolling average (2021–2023) of unplanned CML was
a given year. These outages occur without prior notice, and happen as a about 6.0 minutes, which was slightly higher than the 5.7 minutes
result of various factors such as weather events, third-party damage to recorded last year. CLP Power maintains a world-class supply
the network and equipment faults. reliability of over 99.999% in Hong Kong, which is higher than other
major international cities as shown in the diagram above.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 92

--- Page 93 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Customers Our people Partners Community
Asset management Initiatives and progress
In 2023, the consumption of coal and gas for power generation
Our approach
decreased by 16.9% and 3.3% respectively compared with
2022. Accordingly, electricity sent out from coal and gas assets
Asset management refers to how CLP manages and utilises its
decreased by 16.9% and 1.6% respectively (on an equity plus
assets to provide reliable, reasonably priced and low-carbon
long-term capacity and energy purchase basis).
electricity services to customers and communities. Careful
planning during the project development stage plays a crucial
SASB Reference: IF-EU-000.D; GRI reference: 301-1, 302-1, 302-3, 302-4, 302-5,
role in determining the operational efficiency or capacity
303-5, 305-1, 305-2, EU11
factor range of an asset over its entire lifespan. Projects
involving a major asset overhaul must undergo stringent
CLP reports the annual operating performance of those of
technical and financial scrutiny before commencement.
its generation assets that fall within the reporting scope.
The asset performance metrics include availability, generation
Monitoring and follow-up
sent out, thermal efficiency, and energy intensity.
CLP’s customised Group Operations Information System
(GOIS) is used to compile operational data on adherence
to the Generator Operational Performance Data Standard.
Download CLP’s asset performance statistics
It features built-in data collection, a data compilation and
approval sequence, and a dashboard and reporting functions.
Relevant staff at the asset, regional and Group levels are
responsible for upholding the standard.
Continuous improvement
CLP is constantly looking for ways to improve the operational
efficiency of its assets so that they remain compliant
with the increasingly stringent regulations on emissions
and fuel efficiency in certain jurisdictions. In addition,
improvement opportunities continue to arise from innovation
and optimisation, particularly through the leveraging of
data analytics.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 93

--- Page 94 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Customers Our people Partners Community
Annual Fuel Consumed for Power Generation
Compared to 2022, there was an overall decrease in fossil fuel consumption for power generation in 2023, with
significant reduction in coal consumption due to divestment in Fangchenggang (FCG) Power station and also due to the
exclusion of India assets, including coal-fired Jhajjar power, from operational control.
250,177
2023 146,370
2,854
394,274
2022 151,327
2,936
426,190
2021 142,304
2,717
403,379
2020 134,776
2,243
485,453
2019 107,183
2,620
0 100,000 200,000 300,000 400,000 500,000 600,000
Terajoule (TJ)
Coal Gas Oil
Energy Sent Out by Asset Type1 (on an equity plus long-term capacity and energy purchase basis)
CLP's energy sent out (on an equity plus long-term capacity and energy purchase basis) from all asset types decreased
to 79,512 GWh in 2023 compared to 87,360 GWh in 2022. This decrease in sent out was primarily due to divestment of
Fangchenggang and 10% of equity from Apraava Energy, as well as lower utilisation of Tallawarra and a planned outage
at Daya Bay. This resulted in a reduction of energy sent out from coal assets down to 41% (vs. 45% in 2022), while energy
sent out from gas increased to 24% and sent out from CLP’s non-carbon energy portfolio increased to 35%.
2023 41 24 25 6 2 2000
2022 45 22 24 5 2 2000
2021 48 20 23 5 2 2000
2020 48 20 23 5 2 2000
2019 55 15 22 5 2 2
0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100
%
Coal Gas Nuclear Wind Hydro
Solar Waste-to-energy Energy Storage Others
1 Numbers have been subject to rounding. Any discrepancies between the total shown and the sum of the amounts listed are due to rounding.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 94

--- Page 95 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Customers Our people Partners Community
Energy services and solutions Goals and targets
The CLP Power Customer Service Quality Policy includes a
commitment to support customers in using CLP products and
Our approach
services more efficiently and effectively.
CLP actively engages with its customers by reaching out with
In Hong Kong, CLP Power has worked closely with the Hong
a suite of energy services and solutions designed to meet their
Kong SAR Government on the Development Plan, which covers
evolving needs in the changing market landscape. CLP is also
the second five-year period under the current Scheme of
leveraging its digital capabilities to apply new technologies
Control (SoC) Agreement. The Plan includes:
that are driving behavioural changes in customers’ habits of
energy consumption.
1. Performance targets: Under the current SoC Agreement,
targets have been set (e.g. energy saved annually, number
Strategy and procedures
of buildings or customers supported, etc.) in order to drive
Drawing on its long expertise in the power industry, CLP is
the performance of the CLP Eco Building Fund, the CLP
implementing various initiatives to encourage residential and
Electrical Equipment Upgrade Scheme and energy audits.
business customers and the community at large to use energy
more efficiently and contribute to environmental protection. 2. Peak Demand Management: This enables commercial
CLP is actively promoting energy conservation: and industrial customers to help lower the overall
system demand, reducing the need for investment
•
Equipping customers with cutting-edge tools and in new generation units in the long term. The
technical assistance; programme leverages artificial intelligence (AI), developed
• in partnership with Autogrid, to help lower demand. The
Facilitating customers to unlock greater energy
target is to achieve a reduction of up to 60MW from the
efficiency potential;
demand peak.
•
Offering customers valuable energy insights and practical
3. A new five-year energy-saving target: CLP Power must
tips for energy conservation ; and
achieve energy savings of at least 4% on the basis of
•
Educating the public through awareness campaigns and average annual sales within a five-year period in order
informative programmes to earn incentives under the SoC Agreement. Further
incentives will be earned if energy savings reach 5%.
Read more on CLP Power’s SoC
Agreement performance
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 95

--- Page 96 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Customers Our people Partners Community
Initiatives and progress For its venture investing activities, CLP seeks opportunities
that will enhance its core business and offer long term
CLP Power has conducted the Interim Review of the 15-year growth possibilities.
SoC Agreement with the Hong Kong SAR Government.
CLP has a global open innovation platform that sources
A greater number of CLP Power customers have enrolled solutions to relieve pain points, achieve operational excellence,
in the Feed-in Tariff (FiT) Scheme, which encourages the build new capabilities, and develop business potential. CLP
development of renewable energy in Hong Kong. By the end actively participates in accelerator programmes such as Free
of 2023, 376MW of renewable energy capacity was approved Electrons and the Phoenix scouting programme, working
under the Scheme, amounting to the annual electricity usage with start-ups in China and around the world to explore
of 89,700 residential customers. new business models and pilot and deliver cutting-edge
technologies and solutions. These efforts have also helped CLP
In addition to its SoC Agreement obligations, CLP has develop a suite of end-to-end products and services along the
harnessed its innovation abilities and digital capability electric utilities value chain, summarised in the tables below.
to develop a range of customer-facing solutions and The Group has over 354 full time innovation positions and has
energy services. spent over HK$ 170 million in innovation projects this year.
GRI reference: 2-6, 302-5 CLP’s research work starts with identifying emerging ideas
and technologies that could critically impact the business in the
CLP’s Group Ventures & Research functions integrate the long term. Its research activities leverage partnerships with
venture investing, ecosystem activities as well as research international associations, research institutes and universities.
capabilities into a single team. This enables a more systematic
and synergistic process of formulating strategic focus and
long-term vision, extracting strategic knowledge and value,
and facilitating the cross-pollination of strategic insights
across the CLP Group.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 96

--- Page 97 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Customers Our people Partners Community
Case Study
AutoGrid enables CLP’s Demand Response programme to set a global
industry standard
CLP’s Group Ventures & Research team continues CLP’s venture investments are also unlocking new lines of
to play a unique role and make key strategic business. In 2023, CLP sponsored a technology pilot with
venture investments to derive tangible strategic Hydro X, an Israeli hydrogen transportation and storage
value for CLP. CLP’s venture investments have technology company, to successfully demonstrate that the
helped CLP to achieve different milestones. Hydro X solution can safely store and extract hydrogen
at high quality as an initial step to scale up its technology
CLP’s venture investments are bringing direct value to platform. In 2021, Hydro X received an investment from
CLP’s operations. One example is CLP’s implementation of CLP-OSEG, CLP’s joint venture with the Other Sources
AutoGrid for Peak Demand Response, one of the world’s Energy Group in Israel. CLP is committed to supporting
largest Demand Response programmes. Since 2020, CLP its ecosystem partners in developing decarbonisation
Power has invited residential customers with smart technology such as hydrogen technology.
meters to make slight adjustments to their consumption
behaviour and reduce their energy use during peak The CLP Digital team has a wide competence in digital
demand periods on hot summer days. In 2023, 950,000 services and solutions and data services. The Digital team is
households were invited to join the programme, and tasked with approaching issues and rethinking operations
around 70% of these households saved a total of 410,000 digitally, particularly in the areas of generation, grid,
kilowatt hours (kWh) of electricity over a four-hour peak backend operations, sustainability, customer engagement,
time, which is equivalent to a reduction of 160 tonnes of and achieving a decarbonised customer base.
carbon emissions.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 97

--- Page 98 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Customers Our people Partners Community
Improving energy efficiency
Products and services Updates in 2023
•
Cooling-as-a-Service (CaaS) In January 2023, CLPe signed an agreement with Shui On Group
to install a new cooling system at Shui On Centre in Hong Kong to
Cooling systems are usually a building’s largest source of enhance the energy efficiency of this Grade A office building. The new
power consumption. CLP provides targeted solutions such system is expected to reduce electricity consumption by more than
as chiller retrofitting and replacement services, CaaS and 30% annually.
district cooling solutions to enhance energy efficiency and
•
reduce carbon emissions of building complexes. Under In February 2023, CLPe collaborated with Chinachem Group to build
the Build-Own-Operate-model, CLPe will fund, design, a new water-cooled air conditioning system at Nina Tower. The chiller
construct, operate and maintain the new cooling system to plants together with the PlantPro system will reduce the electricity
enhance energy efficiency and reduce carbon emissions of consumption by over 50%, equivalent to a reduction of 7,000 tonnes
building complexes. of carbon emissions a year.
•
In December 2023, CLPe secured a Cooling-as-a-Service agreement
with Henderson Land for the enhancement of the existing chiller
plant at Flora Plaza. The upgraded chiller plant is anticipated to
reduce electricity consumption by over 50% compared to the existing
condenserless chiller system, resulting in an annual reduction of 200
tonnes of carbon emissions.
•
Solar-as-a-Service (SaaS) On 31 August 2023, a ceremony to celebrate the connection of the
distributed solar PV project to the grid was held at MTR Shenzhen,
Solar photovoltaic (PV) systems convert solar energy into which marked the readiness of the 1.66MWp solar PV system for
electricity to support energy demand, and allow customers power generation. It is estimated that the system, which is installed
to feed electricity back into the grid. on the aluminium alloy roof of the car compartment inspection
and washing depot, will generate 1,800MWh of clean energy and
eliminate 948 tonnes of carbon emissions annually.
•
CLPe completed the solar systems for LINK Properties Limited in 14
locations and will further explore opportunities for solar projects in
other LINK properties to support the company’s sustainability target.
•
In support of the government’s sustainable development plan, CLPe
completed two floating solar projects for government premises at Ha
Mei San Tsuen and Chau Tau.
•
Battery Energy Storage System (BESS) as a Service In 2023, CLPe deployed over 30 Battery Energy Storage Systems
across construction sites operated by prominent construction
Tailor-made BESS solutions can greatly improve business companies in Hong Kong. The replacement of conventional diesel
performance by providing safe, efficient and secure generators resulted in a reduction of over 2,500 tonnes or a
energy storage. CLPe provides a one-stop design, build 75% reduction in carbon emissions compared to those created by
and implementation service, technical support and diesel generators. These BESS installations, powered by advanced
maintenance work, collaborating with its customers to lithium-ion batteries, minimise the risk of system instability during
develop fully integrated energy storage solutions that maintenance while operating at significantly lower noise levels.
meet their specific needs. They exemplify CLP's commitment to sustainability and safer
construction practices.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 98

--- Page 99 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Customers Our people Partners Community
Improving energy efficiency
Products and services Updates in 2023
•
Energy efficiency improvements for buildings The CLP Eco Building Fund provides HK$100 million a year to
subsidise improvement works for a target number of 400 residential
Buildings contribute significantly to Hong Kong’s energy blocks and C&I buildings that will enhance the energy e fficiency
demand. CLP offers various subsidies to support of their communal areas. The initiative aims to save 48GWh of
customers undertaking energy-saving retrofitting works. energy annually.
•
In 2023, customers saved around 50GWh of electricity from over 700
•
CLP Eco Building Fund: The fund provides subsidies for buildings with the support of the Eco Building Fund.
energy efficiency improvement works for residential, •
Since the launch of the Electrical Equipment Upgrade Scheme in 2019,
commercial and industrial buildings.
over HK$110 million in subsidies has been offered to C&I customers
• for replacing or upgrading their electrical equipment to more energy-
CLP Electrical Equipment Upgrade Scheme: This
efficient models.
scheme for business customers provides subsidies to
customers, especially SMEs, to replace or upgrade
their lighting and air-conditioners to more energy-
efficient models.
•
Energy efficiency improvements for businesses Building on previous collaboration, CLP Power and DBS Bank
(Hong Kong) Limited introduced a new “SME Low-carbon Rewards”
CLP Power works in partnership with institutions to offer programme in 2023. It offers subsidies to eligible CLP Power business
flexible and innovative financing solutions to businesses. customers for purchasing CLP Renewable Energy Certificates, along
with a series of privilege banking offers.
•
In 2023, ESR Group Limited (ESR) closed the first sustainability-linked
loan in Hong Kong for a brown field data centre project with support
from CLP Power.
•
Far East Consortium International Limited (FEC) obtained its fi rst
five-year sustainability-linked loan from a bank with the support of
CLP Power. The loan will help FEC improve its energy conservation
performance and further reduce its carbon emissions , thereby
contributing to the sustainable development of its hotel business
in Hong Kong.
•
Peak demand management In Hong Kong, peak power demand was reduced by more than
180MW following the activation of CLP Power’s demand response
To facilitate a more sustainable electricity supply, CLP programmes on 26 July 2023, when electricity demand had reached
works with customers to manage electricity demand and a new peak of 7,452MW. The programme incentivised over 750,000
incentivise reduced consumption during periods of peak commercial, industrial and residential customers of CLP Power to
demand. Initiatives include: reduce consumption.
•
EnergyAustralia’s PowerResponse has a current contracted capacity
•
Demand Response programmes are offered to of 250MW, involving over 300,000 customers.
commercial, industrial and selected residential
customers with smart meters in Hong Kong to lower
overall system demand, reducing the need to invest in
new generation units.
•
EnergyAustralia’s PowerResponse includes a
residential demand response programme and
a contracted demand response programme for
commercial customers.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 99

--- Page 100 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Customers Our people Partners Community
Improving energy efficiency
Products and services Updates in 2023
•
Energy management technology CLPe has introduced PlantPRO, an AI-based chiller plant optimisation
solution, to 15 sites across Hong Kong. In 2023, PlantPRO achieved
Innovations in technology are continuing to drive an estimated reduction in carbon emissions of over 500 tonnes.
improvements in energy management and efficiency. CLP Additionally, the first PlantPRO data centre project was successfully
connects customers with a host of solutions and products completed in 2023. Given the escalating energy consumption
designed to monitor, optimise and automate their energy within the data centre sector in Hong Kong, the deployment of
usage and consumption patterns: PlantPRO promises to deliver substantial energy savings as well as
enhanced reliability.
•
Launched in 2019, CLP’s Smart Energy Connect (SEC)’s
solutions cover the entire value chain from energy CLPe has partnered with Hong Kong Air Cargo Terminals Limited
supply to energy consumption, and include innovations (HACTL) to elevate that company’s energy monitoring capabilities,
for carbon-free energy, grid modernisation, power installing over 500 energy sensors in HACTL’s offices on Lantau
storage, EVs, building energy management and Island. The CLP Smart Sensor Automation product has also been
carbon offsetting. implemented to provide this client with comprehensive visibility into
• its energy consumption, since visibility is the first step towards energy
A mass rollout of smart meters to all CLP Power
conservation and carbon reduction.
customers, from 2018 to 2025, is supporting Hong
Kong’s Smart City transformation.
The CLP Digital team is collaborating with Neuron to conduct a
trial of their digital twin and energy optimisation product at the
current CLP Headquarters in Hung Hom. This initiative serves as
the blueprint for future CLP buildings, revolutionising the way
CLP operates. By seamlessly integrating digital technologies into
buildings, it is unlocking advances in areas such as thermal comfort
and energy efficiency.
•
Since 2018, CLP Power has connected 2.23 million smart meters
for around 80% of its residential and SME customers in an effort
to promote low-carbon living and further improve the safety and
dependability of the power supply. CLP Power expects to replace all its
residential and SME customers’ conventional electricity meters with
smart meters by 2025.
•
Energy audits In 2023, CLP Power exceeded the annual total electricity saved
target of 48GWh and helped C&I customers save around 50GWh of
CLP provides free energy audits and various consulting electricity with more than 600 energy audits completed.
services to C&I customers to help them understand their
energy needs and identify opportunities to reduce their
energy use and hence their operating costs.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 100

--- Page 101 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Customers Our people Partners Community
Improving energy efficiency
Products and services Updates in 2023
•
Energy data and analytics Approximately one third of EnergyAustralia’s C&I customer load is
managed by PurchasePro, and over 1,000 EnergyAustralia customers
CLP provides a variety of energy consumption analysis have access to InsightsPro.
tools and products to help customers make smarter energy • Over 2,500 C&I customers in Hong Kong use Smart Energy
management decisions. Online to manage their energy consumption and improve their
energy efficiency.
•
At EnergyAustralia, PurchasePro is a self-service web
portal which allows business customers to purchase an
agreed load progressively rather than commit to a price
at a single point in time.
•
Smart Energy Online is an online assessment and
management tool for C&I customers in Hong Kong.
Similarly, EnergyAustralia's InsightsPro allows its C&I
customers to access real-time consumption and cost
data to optimise their business’s energy usage.
•
Energy label for electrical appliances CP Label is Hong Kong’s first label for electrical appliances to rate
energy consumption and selling price. The initiative helps customers
The CP Label provides useful information enabling choose energy-efficient and cost-effective home appliances, and is
consumers to identify products that are energy e fficient raising public awareness of the importance of energy saving and
and cost effective. switching to a low-carbon lifestyle.
•
Advanced Retro-Commissioning (RCx) Training CLP Power allocated a further HK$2 million from the CLP Community
Energy Saving Fund in 2022 and 2023 to fund a new series of advanced
CLP Power offers an advanced RCx training course training. Besides offering training to customers, the programme
comprising classroom training and field visits for energy also assisted them in carrying out the energy-saving improvement
management employees and engineers who already have works required to reduce carbon emissions from their buildings
a basic understanding of RCx. and support Hong Kong’s journey towards carbon neutrality. RCx is
a systematic and cost-effective energy management solution that
The RCx training covers advanced topics and techniques allows customers to improve the energy efficiency of their premises
such as data analysis, system diagnosis, measurement by optimising building equipment performance instead of simply
and verification. replacing equipment.
•
24/7 Carbon-free energy (CFE) solutions for To stay abreast of interest from corporates in decarbonising their
corporate customers operations on a 24/7 basis, CLP has developed specialised tools for
designing and optimising CFE infrastructure (such as solar and wind
•
CFE impact visualisation platform power installations) and energy storage to match specific corporate
load profiles. CLP has also partnered with Granular Energy, winner of
the 2023 Free Electrons programme, to provide customers with an
easy-to-use tracking and visualisation platform.
CLP has launched a website dedicated to educating the public about
CFE, and commenced a series of blog posts to champion this area.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 101

--- Page 102 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Customers Our people Partners Community
Using electricty more widely for transport and industry
Products and services Updates in 2023
•
Electric-Vehicle-as-a-Service (EVaaS) In May 2023, CLPe and AVIS Hong Kong (AVIS) launched Hong Kong's fi rst
Electric Vehicle as a Service. Fleet operators and businesses in industries
•
Electric-Vehicle-as-a-Service (EVaaS) is a value- ranging from logistics to construction can select EVs from AVIS’s wide
added service that enables corporate fl eet range of vans and vehicles according to their needs, and CLPe will then
customers to save upfront capital investment customise their charging solutions by funding, procuring, and installing the
and enjoy flexibility in their fleet e lectrification EV charging facilities they require.
journey. CLPe will invest, build, operate and
•
maintain EVaaS charging solutions over a period of During the contract period, customers will pay a monthly fee to CLPe
time at an agreed rate. which covers AVIS’s rental fees and the EV charging service fees, thus,
minimising the investment costs, company assets and manpower needed
for electrification. Other benefits include 24-hour support services,
insurance coverage, car licence fees, and repairs and maintenance of
charging facilities and vehicles. A cloud management system and mobile
app designed by CLPe enables customers to easily manage their fl eets
and make adjustments according to their operational needs. This system
monitors the real-time use of charging facilities and the charging status of
EVs and provides electricity consumption data.
•
Electric vehicle infrastructure CLP Power continued its efforts to promote green motoring in Hong Kong
by providing free EV charging services. In 2023, CLP continued to enhance
•
CLP Power continues to support green motoring its charging infrastructure within CLP premises to support greater EV
and the electrification of vehicles in Hong Kong – adoption in its fleet.
a long-term government policy objective set out • From the launch of the Eco Charge 2.0 service in November 2020 up to
in the Hong Kong Roadmap on Popularisation of the end of 2023, CLP Power had completed preliminary power supply
Electric Vehicles. CLP Power extended the free capacity assessments for more than 577 applications from owners of
charging service for its EV charging stations until private buildings and estate managers, covering over 136,000 parking
further notice. bays. Professional advice was also provided to the applicants.
•
CLP Power’s Eco Charge 2.0 EV Power Supply
•
Support service. In 2016, CLP formed Smart Charge To date, Smart Charge has designed, installed and is currently managing
(HK) Limited, a joint venture with HKT to provide a EV charging infrastructure in residential car parks in Hong Kong covering
one-stop service for EV charging. a combined total of almost 10,000 parking bays.
•
• In 2023, EnergyAustralia reinforced its role as a leader in the electrification
The CLP Charge Point Operator platform and of Australia's transport sector. Its unique Green Transport Energy solution,
EV driver app were successfully launched in which integrates EV chargers with onsite solar and battery storage, is not
2023, both of which are instrumental to the only supporting efficient EV charging but is also enhancing sustainability
electrification of the CLP fleet and the creation by harnessing renewable energy sources.
of a future business model that includes charging-
as-a-service. Throughout the year, EnergyAustralia actively engaged with EV
•
In Australia, EnergyAustralia has outlined plans manufacturers, fleet operators, and customers with a focus on developing
to support the transport industry with vehicle and implementing customised infrastructure solutions. A highlight of
electrification by working with EV manufacturers, 2023 was a collaboration with Tropic Wings, North Queensland's largest
fleet operators and their customers to plan and tours and charter bus operator, involving the replacement of 12 diesel
build the charging infrastructure they need. buses with electric ones, each supported by a customised charging
solution. EnergyAustralia is responsible for delivering and overseeing
the electrification infrastructure in Cairns, with completion expected by
mid-2024. The project, valued at A$10.2 million, includes a A$4.75 million
contribution from the Australian Renewable Energy Agency (ARENA),
underscoring its importance for promoting sustainable transport.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 102

--- Page 103 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Customers Our people Partners Community
Enabling low-carbon electricity supply
Products and services Updates in 2023
•
Decentralised renewable energy / rooftop solar Since the commencement of the FiT Scheme in mid-2018 to the end of
2023, CLP Power had received over 24,800 applications. Around 96%
CLP offers feed-in tariffs and rooftop solarso for its of the applications, representing a total capacity of around 376MW,
customers to support the decentralisation of energy and have been approved. About 21,100 applications have been completed
the growth of renewable energy. and connected to the grid to enjoy FiT.
•
The FiT Scheme continues to attract customers from various sectors,
•
The Feed-in Tariff (FiT) Scheme in Hong Kong including business and industry, schools, urban households and
enables customers to install a solar and/or wind village houses.
power renewable energy system on their premises •
The Solar Home Bundle was launched as a scale product in September
and connect the system to the CLP grid to earn
2021 following the successful trial of the Solar Plus Plan in 2020.
FiT payments.
EnergyAustralia aims to have more than 1,000 customers on the Solar
•
The Solar Home Bundle is now available to eligible Plus plan and Solar Home Bundle by the end of 2024 with ambitions
households in NSW in Australia with annual electricity for numbers to grow significantly as it is rolled out in other states.
usage of above 6,000 kWh. EnergyAustralia will be
launching the Solar Home Bundle in Victoria in early
2024 and are looking at ways to bring this offer to
customers in other states.
•
Corporate Power Purchasing Agreements (PPAs) With increasing market demand, CLP proactively engages with
customers in the property sector to support their renewable
Businesses wishing to increase the direct renewable energy conversion journey. There was continued interest in the
energy available to them may elect to enter Power direct purchase of renewables whether as annual purchasing or as
Purchasing Agreements with CLP. PPAs provide customers 24/7 granular matching. This is evidence of positive momentum in
with the most credible and efficient clean energy available. the market. CLP leverages expertise in renewable energy assets,
battery storage and energy management indicator to support its
corporate customers.
•
Carbon Credit Website and Carbon calculator CLP refreshed its carbon credit website to educate the market about
the appropriate use of carbon credits. The Group is currently working
CLP revamped the Carbon Credit websites to promote on further enhancements to provide broader education on c ertificates
public education and awareness about carbon offsets. and their role in decarbonisation journeys.
The user-friendly layout now includes updated and
comprehensive information about the carbon market and
CLP's carbon credit program.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 103

--- Page 104 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Customers Our people Partners Community
Offsetting emission that cannot be otherwise avoided
Products and services Updates in 2023
•
Energy attribute certificates (EACs) In 2023, close to 173GWh units of RECs were sold, a significant increase
from the 100GWh units sold in the past year.
CLP offers a range of EACs to support customers' • CLP China’s wind and solar projects are eligible to apply for and
decarbonisation objectives. In Hong Kong, Renewable issue GECs that can be traded through the market. For example,
Energy Certificates (RECs) offer an alternative for Yangzhou Gongdao Solar Power Station in Jiangsu province transfers
customers wanting to support local renewable energy the renewable electricity bundled with GECs to the zero-carbon
generation. Each unit of an REC represents the energy customers in the region.
environmental attributes of electricity produced by local
renewable energy sources, generated or purchased by •
Around 12,000 EnergyAustralia customers have chosen a
CLP Power.
GreenPower government accredited PureEnergy option for their
electricity supply.
In Mainland China, CLP China’s renewable assets issue
Green Electricity Certificates (GECs), which are the only
officially recognised renewable energy certificates in
Mainland China that can be used to meet obligations or to
support voluntary green power trading.
In Australia, EACs serve as an option to reduce customers’
Scope 2 emissions when decentralised renewables
are not a viable option. For example, PureEnergy
from EnergyAustralia helps customers support the
production of green energy from government accredited
renewable sources.
•
Carbon Credits CLP continues to promote carbon offsetting and support customers’
decarbonisation journey. Customers can offset their unavoidable
Carbon credits represent carbon emissions avoided as a emissions with CLP Carbon Credits after taking actions to cut down
result of emissions reduction projects. CLP encourages their emissions. CLP had a HKD$ 1.8 million offset of 79,000 tCO2e
its customers and corporates to purchase these carbon in 2023.
credits to offset their unavoidable emissions.
•
EnergyAustralia offers Climate Active-certified electricity and gas
In addition to selling carbon credits, CLP also collaborates products for customers of all sizes that have opted in to the Go
with many industries to deliver carbon offset initiatives. Neutral programme. This means that the Company purchases vetted
EnergyAustralia has various programmes that provide carbon offset certificates to offset the emissions associated with the
carbon neutral electricity, such as: energy usage of these customers in their homes and businesses.
EnergyAustralia exclusively purchases accredited international offset
• Go Neutral, under which residential customers can opt certificates derived from projects reviewed by external assessors,
to purchase corresponding carbon offsets to cancel and smaller volumes of Australian Carbon Credit Units, in line with
out the emissions associated with their home gas and the Climate Active programme, its internal trading policy documents,
electricity usage, at no added cost to themselves. and the advice of external assessors engaged by EnergyAustralia to
• ensure thorough vetting and quality assessment.
Business Carbon Neutral, which helps business
customers offset emissions associated with their
Currently, around a quarter of EnergyAustralia's residential
electricity usage.
customers receive carbon offset energy as part of the Go Neutral
programme. By the end of 2023, EnergyAustralia had selected and
purchased offsets equal to over 6 million tonnes of greenhouse gas
emissions for its residential and business customers. This represents
the largest Climate Active certified offset offering in the Australian
energy sector, and the second largest in all sectors in Australia.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 104

--- Page 105 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Customers Our people Partners Community
Case Study
Helping Link Asset Management Limited (Link) achieve its 2035 Net Zero
Pathway goals
CLP Power and CLPe have signed a Memorandum more than 20 GWh of electricity over the past five years.
of Understanding (MoU) with Link Asset This is equivalent to the annual electricity consumption
Management Limited to improve the energy of over 5,000 households, and represents a reduction of
efficiency of Link’s premises and raise ESG 8,800 tonnes of carbon emissions.
awareness among its tenants.
CLP and Link will continue to explore collaboration
To assist Link in achieving its 2035 Net Zero Pathway goals, opportunities, including the implementation of energy
CLP carries out regular energy audits on Link's properties, management solutions at Link premises and the potential
which include shopping arcades, fresh markets and car acquisition of sustainability-linked loans from fi nancial
parks, and provides recommendations for improving their institutions. Additionally, CLP Power will provide technical
energy efficiency. CLP is also supporting Link's energy- support for EV charging installations to encourage
saving initiatives through subsidy schemes such as the low-carbon transportation. The two companies will
CLP Eco Building Fund. One of these funded projects also explore the feasibility of shifting from diesel
has involved the installation of energy-efficient cooling generators to battery energy storage systems at Link's
systems in 21 shopping arcades, resulting in savings of construction sites.
Case Study
Teaming up with Chinachem Group to push towards carbon neutrality
CLP Power signed a new MoU with Chinachem five-year Collaborative Agreement on Smart and Green
Group (Chinachem) in November 2023 to support Initiatives to support the implementation of smart and
Chinachem’s pursuit of carbon neutrality. low-carbon technology in Chinachem's iconic Nina Tower.
Approximately 14 gigawatt hours (GWh) of electricity
This collaboration will introduce new sustainability have been saved to date. The Agreement has established
initiatives to further enhance Chinachem’s efforts in a solid foundation for the two companies to expand
energy efficiency, decarbonisation and e lectrification. their collaboration in electrification, decarbonisation and
Under the new MoU, CLP Power will continue offering energy efficiency.
Chinachem technical assistance to replace conventional
diesel generators with Battery Energy Storage Systems CLP Power will also help Chinachem with the
at two of its project construction sites. CLP Power will decarbonisation of its facilities. This involves utilising
also support Chinachem's hotel division, Nina Hospitality, a pilot Energy Management System at Nina Mall that
in implementing smart laundries and electric kitchens to is driven by big data analytics and 5G technology to
enhance its operational and energy efficiency. accurately forecast the cooling load. To identify further
opportunities for decarbonisation, CLP Power will also
Chinachem has been implementing an ambitious carbon conduct energy audits on Chinachem’s new development
reduction roadmap CCG 3050+, aiming at the reduction projects. These include a premier cold storage and logistics
of at least 51.8% of 2020 Scope 1 and 2 carbon intensity facility in Kwai Chung, and the new Tung Chung business
by 2030. In 2019, Chinachem and CLP Power signed a hub, which will house a green data centre.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 105

--- Page 106 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Customers Our people Partners Community
Customer privacy (CDR). The sharing of product data in the energy sector
commenced on 1 October 2022 and consumer data sharing
commenced on 15 November 2022. It gives customers the
Our approach
right to share certain transaction, usage and product data
relating to their electricity accounts with EnergyAustralia
Under the CLP Code of Conduct, every employee must
with authorised parties under the CDR regime who are then
safeguard the Company’s assets and the resources entrusted
able to compare what other electricity offers may better
to the Company’s care, including customer information,
suit the customer’s needs. EnergyAustralia was granted an
against loss, theft or misuse.
exemption by the Australian Competition and Consumer
Commission (ACCC) from the original commencement date
GRI reference: 418-1
in November 2022, requiring EnergyAustralia to commence
CDR data sharing by 15 May 2023.
In Hong Kong, the Personal Data (Privacy) Ordinance (PDPO)
governs the protection of the personal data of individuals. The
By 15 May 2023, EnergyAustralia successfully went live as
Data Protection Principles in the PDPO outline CLP Power’s
a CDR ‘data holder’, meaning EnergyAustralia is now able to
obligations as a data user. They relate to the collection,
share information required under the CDR regime for most
accuracy, retention, use and security of personal data, as
of its eligible residential, small business, and large business
well as individuals’ rights to access and correct their personal
customers. EnergyAustralia continues to refine its CDR data
customer data.
sharing platform as it receives feedback and enquiries from
customers or other CDR participants.
Under the Privacy Act 1988 (Privacy Act), EnergyAustralia
has obligations to ensure the appropriate collection, use,
Strategy and procedures
disclosure and security as well as access to individual’s own
The CLP Privacy Principles set out the Company’s commitment
personal information. There are also mandatory data breach
and approach to protecting personal data. CLP has a
reporting obligations in relation to Notifiable Data Breaches.
designated Corporate Data Protection Officer who oversees
EnergyAustralia is required to report data breaches if there
the governance of personal data management of business
is unauthorised access to, unauthorised disclosure of, or loss
operations in Hong Kong. Their contact details can be found on
of personal information that EnergyAustralia holds, and if this
CLP’s CLP Privacy Policy Statement.
is likely to result in serious harm to one or more individuals,
and if EnergyAustralia has been unable to prevent the likely
The Group preserves the confidentiality of the personal data
risk of serious harm with remedial action. N otifications
provided to it in accordance with the CLP Privacy Policy
must be made to the Office of the Australian Information
Statement, which was updated with effect from 1 November
Commissioner (OAIC) and to the affected customers with
2018. The CLP Privacy Policy Statement demonstrates
a description of the data breach, the kinds of information
the Company’s approach to protecting personal data and
involved and recommendations for customers in response to
is applicable to everyone across its entire Hong Kong
the data breach.
operations who handles personal data. All employees who
have to handle or process personal data of any individual
On September 2023, the Australian Government expressed
for business operations in Hong Kong must follow CLP
support for significant reforms to the Privacy Act, which
procedures, practices and local regulations in relation to
are likely to include: Mandatory Privacy impact assessments
personal data privacy.
for high risk activities, a Statutory Tort / direct right of
action for serious invasions of privacy under the Privacy
These procedures are outlined in the CLP Personal Data
Act, establishment of litigation funds for the OAIC, maximum
Protection Compliance Manual which sets out CLP’s data
reporting timeframes for data breaches being reduced to
protection compliance framework, including its governance
72 hours, and requirements for privacy policies to include
structure and the roles and responsibilities of different
references to where automatic decision-making has been
functions and personnel within the governance structure. All
used to decline/approve access to essential services such as
business units with operations in Hong Kong must implement
utilities. A draft Bill is expected in 2024 which will likely contain
and abide by this manual which also provides guidance on
additional detail, such as the compliance timeframes expected
the protection and use of personal data. Adherence to policies
from entities such as EnergyAustralia.
and procedures regarding privacy and data protection are
further embedded in CLP's Code of Conductand the compliance
In May 2018, the Australian Government announced that
management procedures of the Code.
energy data would be included in the Consumer Data Right
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 106

--- Page 107 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Customers Our people Partners Community
Under the Code of Conduct CLP commits to compliance with all Training and awareness
laws and regulations and to abiding by the Company's policies CLP further protects customer information through a focus on
and procedures which includes data privacy laws and the CLP preventing unauthorised disclosures to malicious attackers or
Data Protection Compliance Manual. The Code of Conduct impersonators. This involves carrying out specific awareness
stipulates that anyone found violating the Code will be subject activities in the year such as communications and quality
to disciplinary action. CLP’s internal audit function appraises assurance assessment, and providing coaching and additional
compliance with policies and procedures and evaluation of the training for frontline staff. Company-wide communications,
effectiveness of the overall controls in accordance with their employee training and briefing sessions with leadership are
audit cycles and assessment scope. In addition, suppliers are also conducted to ensure all staff understand current privacy
informed of and expected to comply with data privacy laws as and data management obligations. A Data Breach Response
outlined in CLP’s Supplier Code of Conduct. Plan has been formulated and a Data Breach Response Team
established to ensure the business has the capability and the
Monitoring and follow-up procedures in place to respond swiftly to any such incidents.
CLP monitors and documents any complaints related to
breaches of customer privacy and the loss of customer data. A compulsory e-learning programme on data protection is
In addition to the CLP Personal Data Protection Compliance given to all new employees and is periodically mandated
Manual, there is a written guideline used by the Customer to be given to all employees to refresh their knowledge.
Success and Experience Business Unit for handling customer CLP also runs frequent tailored data protection awareness
data incidents. The guideline includes information about the programmes, which include regular briefings, case sharing,
classification and assessment of the scope and severity of quizzes and refresher activities, for employees who have
data incidents, reporting roles and responsibilities, and an regular interaction with protected data (such as members
incident response strategy and checklist. The Corporate Data of the Legal Review Committee). Industry threats are
Protection Officer also retains a record of data incidents and continuously reviewed with a view to strengthening controls
follow-up actions. over the management and monitoring of networks, systems
and mobile devices, data loss, and suspicious cyber activities.
EnergyAustralia has developed and maintains a Data CLP also regularly emphasises the need for potential privacy
Breach Response Plan which is implemented by a Data incidents to be reported in a timely manner.
Breach Response Team. The plan outlines the strategy for
assessing, managing, containing and reporting data breaches At EnergyAustralia, briefing sessions on customer privacy
within required timeframes, and outlines relevant roles and include leadership, enterprise-wide communications and
responsibilities. The plan is activated whenever a potential employee training to ensure all staff are up to date with
data breach is identified. current privacy and data management policies and practices.
Privacy training is a compulsory requirement for all new
employees, and subsequent refresher training is provided to
Learn how CLP responds to cyber
all employees annually.
security incidents
Initiatives and progress GRI reference: 418-1
In 2023, CLP Power reported no cases of customer data loss CLP Power was awarded the Privacy-Friendly Awards 2023
in Hong Kong. In Australia, EnergyAustralia reported one case Outstanding Gold Certificate by the Office of the Privacy
involving the compromise of customer data in the year. Commissioner for Personal Data (PCPD) in Hong Kong, in
recognition of its commitment to and efforts in protecting the
personal data privacy of its customers and stakeholders.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 107

--- Page 108 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Customers Our people Partners Community
Customer satisfaction EnergyAustralia averages one to two million conversations
with customers every year, either over the phone or via digital
service channels. In 2023, EnergyAustralia handled more than
Our approach
1.5 millions calls. It also engages with more than 100,000
individuals, businesses and stakeholders annually through
CLP is committed to providing high quality service and
formal research to help shape its business decisions, products
good value to customers, including by meeting its regulatory
and services.
requirements and delivering on its customer service pledges.
Monitoring and follow-up
GRI reference: 417-1
In Hong Kong, an external market research consultant
conducts an annual telephone survey to measure customer
Strategy and procedures
satisfaction. The customer satisfaction score considers overall
CLP customers can access information about its products
satisfaction towards CLP, and includes a relative rating
and services quickly and efficiently through communication
comparing CLP to an ideal utility in Hong Kong. The score
channels such as an email welcome pack sent to new
is benchmarked against the public utilities in the energy sector
customers, the CLP Power websites and the CLP Mobile App,
and other public service organisations.
as well as the EnergyAustralia websites and Mobile Apps. CLP
also engages with its residential, commercial and industrial
EnergyAustralia counts the number of calls and complaints
customers through satisfaction surveys, online service portals,
it receives, and measures customer satisfaction through its
site visits to its assets, account manager support, and through
Strategic Net Promoter Score (SNPS). Customer satisfaction
its Customer Service Centres and Customer Interaction Centre.
is measured monthly via an online NPS survey sent to a
representative group of customers. The Transactional Net
CLP strives to respond effectively to customer needs and
Promoter Score (TNPS) is also used to track customer
preferences. All escalated cases will be studied thoroughly to
satisfaction in relation to specific customer interactions,
ensure issues raised by customers are appropriately resolved.
providing more direct feedback to frontline staff.
Initiatives and progress CLP Power Hong Kong Limited customer satisfaction score
CLP is committed to providing safe and reliable energy for CLP Power’s customer satisfaction score improved
its customers to support their business operations and daily in 2023 to the levels recorded in 2020 and is on a par
lives. Its frontline teams have continued to maintain essential with other public service organisations.
support and customer services, and to ensure the reliability of
the power supply.
74
2023 74
74
GRI reference: 417-3, 418-1
72
2022 73
73
73
2021 74
73
74
2020 74
74
72
2019 73
73
0 20 40 60 80
Score
CLP
All public utilities in the energy sector
Public service organisations
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 108

--- Page 109 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Customers Our people Partners Community
Australia Complaints received by EnergyAustralia
Complaints received by EnergyAustralia The total complaint volumes received in 2023
The total complaint volumes received in 2023 increased increased by 25% from the 2022 figure.
by 25% from the 2022 figure. Following the challenges
experienced during the second half of 2022 across the
industry, this year continued to experience the impacts of
2023 16,594
increased cost of living pressures driven by the market
uncertainties arising from the energy crisis and market
sustainability that resulted in unprecedented call volumes 2022 13,259
impacting EnergyAustralia's service levels. This resulted
in customers reaching out to the Ombudsman directly
and bypassing EnergyAustralia’s opportunity to resolve the 2021 14,643
complaints internally.
The mid-year market-wide price increase activity coupled with 2020 17,049
heavy media coverage of increases across the industry at large
further triggered complaints to both the Ombudsman and
internally to EnergyAustralia. The nature of the complaints 2019 20,937
highlights the cost-of-living crisis, with energy affordability as
a key driver. 0 10,000 20,000 30,000
Number
EnergyAustralia noted a year-on-year increase in total
complaint volumes. Actions are underway to restore stability
in complaints performance, and the fourth quarter of 2023
showed a declining trend in complaint volumes. This was the
EnergyAustralia's Transactional Net Promoter Score (TNPS)
result of bolstering EnergyAustralia's resources to resolve
complaints and to meet growing demand from customers This year's TNPS increased significantly as
seeking hardship assistance, coupled with initiatives already in EnergyAustralia has addressed and resolved
place to reduce the incoming volume of complaints. customer concerns through timely engagement and
effective conversations with its customers.
Despite these challenges, EnergyAustralia continued to
go above and beyond to successfully address and
resolve customer concerns through timely engagement
and effective conversations with its customers preventing 2023 30.0
further escalations.
2022 24.6
This has been reflected in EnergyAustralia’s TNPS which is at a
5 year high of 30.
2021 28.5
2020 27.4
2019 23.5
0 10 20 30 40
Score
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 109

--- Page 110 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Customers Our people Partners Community
•
Security management Operational Technology (OT): Hardware and software that
detects, monitors or controls physical devices (such as
turbines) at CLP assets;
Our approach
•
Information Technology (IT): The IT used to store, retrieve,
CLP Group Digital’s Group Security protects CLP’s people, transmit and manipulate data or information;
property, information and reputation against security risks. •
Personnel: Staff employed by CLP, both at the workplace
and travelling for business; and
Strategies and procedures •
Brand: CLP’s image, identity and associated reputation.
CLP’s security strategy is guided by the CLP Risk Management
Framework, with oversight from the Board. The Group
CLP security measures are robust and scalable. They provide
Security Policy, last updated in 2021, lays out the overall
comprehensive, layered and flexible protection.
approach taken to minimise risk to people, including
employees, contractors, customers and the public, and to
CLP's approach to security
manage other business risks to acceptable levels. In 2023, all
cyber security-related standards have been updated to take
into account technological advances, changing legislation and
emerging standards of good practice.
The policy addresses the following areas:
•
Integrated and centralised organisation and governance:
Security is an integrated department within CLP Digital.
It covers all relevant lines of security activity within
the Company, and operates independently of the IT and
operational technology governing organisations.
•
Policies, standards and guidelines: Provides a suite of
documents guiding the management and monitoring of
risks in line with recognised industry standards.
•
Understanding the threats: Ensures decisions related to
the application of security measures are appropriately
informed and, wherever possible, intelligence driven.
•
Communications and awareness: Aims to continuously
Operational responsibilities
enhance the security awareness and knowledge of
The Group Security team was established in 2020 to ensure
employees and contractors to encourage security-
that CLP’s cyber and physical security capabilities and
positive behaviour.
efforts complement each other. The team gives CLP in-house
•
Technical domain: Ensures that robust operational capabilities across the full range of security skillsets. Following
detection and response tools are developed, applied internal restructuring in 2022, the Group Security team
and maintained. was integrated into Group Digital in a strategic move to
•
Liaison: Aims to maintain constructive and trusted support CLP’s transition. Group Security is now separate from
relationships with external stakeholders (such as national Group Operations but maintains close working relations with
cyber security agencies and industry bodies) to ensure its various departments in particular HSE and the Project
speedy and effective cooperation if the need arises. Management Office. Regular reports are provided by Group
Digital to the Board’s Audit & Risk Committee (ARC), providing
The strategy includes cyber security and physical security assurance that adequate risk management is in place and
measures to protect five separate but co-dependent lines being followed and that appropriate remedial action is being
of activity: taken where needed.
•
Information: The confidentiality, integrity and availability
of data stored in both hard and electronic formats; Read the Audit & Risk Committee’s report
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 110

--- Page 111 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Customers Our people Partners Community
•
Physical security The CLP Business Travel Risk Management Plan minimises
the security, medical and health risks faced by employees
engaged in business travel. On behalf of the Group,
Our approach
the Security team in CLP Digital leads on business
travel security in close cooperation with Group HR and
Physical security is applied appropriately to all of CLP’s assets.
Group Finance.
Enhanced measures are in place to protect sensitive locations
such as data centres, control rooms, and transmission and
Training and awareness
distribution sites.
CLP security staff must always comply with CLP’s Code
of Conduct. They receive related training on an annual
GRI reference: 410-1
basis. In addition to training on national regulations and
site-specific requirements, contract security staff receive
Strategies and procedures
induction training on CLP policies relating to a harassment-
Physical security encompasses physical measures to
free workplace, minimum wage guidelines and measures
safeguard people, prevent unauthorised access to equipment,
preventing discrimination in the workplace. They must
facilities, material and documents, and safeguard these
complete this induction training before being granted access
items against security incidents. It covers physical barriers
to their assigned workplace sites.
(e.g. fences), security lighting, physical access controls and
surveillance systems.
2023 has seen the removal of all COVID-19 related control
measures and the reestablishment of business travel across
A comprehensive body of documents has been developed to
CLP's operational footprint. This has meant considerable effort
assist all regions and regional assets in establishing or revising
has been made to ensure that all staff either supporting or
their security management documentation. These documents
engaged in business travel were properly briefed about the
are aligned with international standards for security, and lay
support they can obtain from the company.
out best practices from across the Group.
•
The CLP Physical Security Standard lays down the
minimum standard of physical security measures expected
at every asset owned or operated by CLP, regardless of
location or role.
•
The CLP Physical Security Guideline provides practical
guidance on the security requirements expected of
all business units, in line with the Group Security
Policy and Physical Security Standard. For instance, it
includes guidelines on how to identify potential areas of
weakness, develop appropriate security countermeasures,
and prepare a security response plan.
•
The CLP Security Vulnerability Assessment Guideline is
the flagship document that lays down the process for
evaluating the security status of any CLP site. Applied
in close collaboration with the operator, it provides a
comprehensive security “health check” using a risk-based
approach that covers threats and areas of weakness, and
offers solutions.
•
CLP’s Security Due Diligence for Project Design and
Construction or Site Acquisition has been developed to
support projects in the early stages of acquisition or
construction. All projects and acquisitions undergo this
process, regardless of size.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 111

--- Page 112 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Customers Our people Partners Community
Cyber security Monitoring and follow-up
CLP continually monitors its IT systems and networks and
stays alert to potential threats to its OT systems. Advances in
Strategies and procedures
cyber security technologies have helped improve the Group's
ability to detect cyber security breaches. If suspicious activity
Cyber security incidents occur in a virtual space. Some, such
is discovered in the IT or OT network environments, immediate
as data leaks, may not cause immediate disruption and
action is taken to investigate it and, if necessary, isolate the
therefore be difficult to detect or trace. As CLP’s workplace and
threat and initiate recovery action. Employees are reminded
operations become increasingly digitalised, electronic devices
regularly to report suspicious cyber activity directly to CLP
could become vulnerable to cyberattacks. CLP therefore
Group Security via several channels. Suspicious emails can be
strives to protect its OT and IT systems, defined as follows:
automatically reported with the click of a button.
•
Operational Technology is the hardware and software that
Initiatives and progress
detects, monitors or controls physical devices (such as
turbines) belonging to CLP.
In 2023 a new Security Operations Centre was established
•
Information Technology is the technology used to store, in CLP Hong Kong. Deloitte was engaged to support this
retrieve, transmit and manipulate data or information. service, which provides 24/7 security monitoring, reporting
and response. As a result, CLP’s ability to manage incidents
CLP's management of cyber security is documented in round the clock has been significantly enhanced. Other similar
20 standards which align with the NIST Cyber Security initiatives have been launched by CLP China, EnergyAustralia
Framework and provide guidelines for selecting and specifying and Apraava Energy.
security controls for informations systems and processes to
reduce the risk of cyber threats and attacks. These all sit under As one of CLP’s top-tier risks, cyber security is regularly
a unified Group Security policy document. Due to differing assessed and reports made to senior management through
regulatory requirements mandated in other jurisdictions, the risk management process. Further regulatory changes are
some Regions/ Businesses Units have developed their own anticipated. Although recruiting individuals with the relevant
documents which align with their local jurisdiction but respect cyber security skillsets can be difficult, CLP is looking to further
the baseline laid down by Group Security's 20 standards. enhance its capacity in the areas of process, people and
technology and to recruit the expertise required to spearhead
Training and awareness these efforts.
Employee and associates of the Group represent important
cyber defence assets. They need relevant knowledge to raise
Read more from the Audit & Risk Committee
their awareness and maintain their vigilance.
Report in 2023 Annual Report
Continual efforts are made through training and education
to raise cyber security awareness among employees and
encourage them to practise good “cyber hygiene”. Security
awareness activities at the employee level include simulated
phishing emails, internal broadcast campaigns, b riefings,
videos and the introduction of ‘Cyber Champions’, a
communication campaign, all designed to promote good cyber
practice across departments and functions.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 112

--- Page 113 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Customers Our people Partners Community
Emergency and crisis management Crisis Management Plan
CLP’s Group Crisis Management Plan ensures high levels
of preparedness in responding to and recovering from
Our approach
emergency situations, and helps minimise disruption to
customers. The Plan is continually reviewed and enhanced
Attacks on CLP’s operation systems or physical assets could
to ensure it remains in line with operational changes and the
have dire consequences. CLP must be able to detect any
broader operating context. It provides a strong platform for
incursion in real time, every time, and remediate the incident
the effective handling of a crisis at the Group level. The plan:
before harm results.
•
Outlines crisis management organisation, roles,
Strategies and procedures
responsibilities, procedures and processes;
CLP maintains robust and regularly tested emergency
•
response and crisis management procedures. As the first line Specifies the tools needed to ensure the collective response
of defence, when an incident arises the Incident Management is well planned, well executed and fully integrated across
Process (shown below) is activated. the organisation;
•
Describes the relationship and interface between the
CLP Incident Management Process handling of regional- and Group-level crises; and
•
Details the processes that govern internal and external
communications during emergencies and crises, ensuring
that those responsible for managing a crisis have the
necessary information to carry out their responsibilities
and that key stakeholders are informed.
The Group-level plan is supported at regional level by
Regional Crisis Management Plans which mirror the Group
document but are tailored for each region. In addition, detailed
emergency response plans have been developed for each
asset. These plans are designed to be used by first responders
and asset managers.
CLP’s Crisis Management & Emergency Response Structure is
outlined in the diagram below.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 113

--- Page 114 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Customers Our people Partners Community
CLP Crisis Management & Emergency Response Structure
Training and awareness Group and Regional Crisis Management Plans are reviewed
As specified in both Group and regional publications, at least every three years. Regional crisis management
emergency response drills are conducted at least annually at exercises are conducted annually as part of the internal peer
all Group sites, with smaller scale drills taking place more often. review process.
•
Initiatives and progress Reviewing and improving notification and communication
tools; and
CLP has continued to enhance its crisis management capability •
At Group level, conducting crisis management
to ensure the organisation can respond promptly and
communication drills and administrative drills to ensure
effectively if an incident occurs.
that the equipment and procedures are functional and fully
understood by the operators.
From a crisis management perspective, the emphasis of the
Company has been on maintaining and enhancing capability.
Initiatives continued in the year include:
•
Considerable work has been conducted to develop a
replacement to the now aged Crisis Communications
Billboard (CCB). An interim solution has been developed
and is being rolled out in the first and second quarter of
2024 to ensure that there is a seamless transition from one
platform to another;
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 114

--- Page 115 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Customers Our people Partners Community
Case Study
Crisis management in action during extreme weather events
In early September 2023, CLP implemented in 2018, CLP prioritised the replacement of smart meters
multiple measures to maintain a reliable power at remote villages in 2019. With smart meters in place,
supply and mitigate the impact of Super Typhoon the result was improved supply failure detection and
Saola, when typhoon signals of No.8 and above a reduction in repair time. Moreover, CLP maintained
were hoisted for 38 hours. close communication with power supply companies
in Guangdong Province to ensure mutual assistance
To ensure a stable power supply, CLP enhanced inspections when necessary.
of its power supply equipment prior to the typhoon,
installed flood gates at substations vulnerable to fl ooding, Additionally, CLP released a short video that offered advice
and pruned trees that could pose a potential risk to on how to prepare for approaching typhoons and covered
overhead lines. some important reminders on dealing with power outages
during typhoons.
Given the severe damage caused by Super Typhoon
Mangkhut to the power supply facilities of remote villages
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 115

--- Page 116 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Customers Our people Partners Community
Our people
Overview
Areas of stakeholder interest Relevant sustainability agenda
•
Workforce size and mix A safe, future-ready workforce
•
Fair and ethical work practices •
• Attracting and developing diverse future talent
Fostering diversity and inclusion
and capabilities
•
Talent and skills development •
Helping our people succeed
•
Supporting employees to thrive in change •
Embedding agile and innovative ways of working, mindsets
•
Health, Safety and Environment management and behaviours
• •
Occupational health and safety Promoting workplace safety and wellbeing
Community stewardship
•
Promoting responsible supply chains
Outcome for stakeholders
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 116

--- Page 117 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Customers Our people Partners Community
Workforce size and mix Energy from 2023. For more details, please refer to Reporting
scope and data verification section.
CLP engaged over 16,200 employees and contractors on a
Across remaining markets, the total employment rose,
full-time equivalent basis at the end of 2023.
primarily due to continued post-pandemic recovery of
activity. Utilisation of service contractors increased, r eflecting
GRI reference: 2-7, 2-8
temporary skills requirements to support decarbonisation and
digitalisation projects.
Reflecting Apraava Energy’s transition to a joint venture at
the end of 2022, total workforce reporting excludes Apraava
Employees and contractors by region
Employees Contractors Total
Labour Total Contractors
Average FTE Fixed-term supply Service Contractors workforce in total
(a) Permanent % contract % (b) contractor (c) sub-total (a)+(b)+(c)1 workforce %
Hong Kong 5,168.0 83.0 17.0 904.1 4,880.1 5,784.3 10,952.3 52.8
Mainland China 702.0 70.1 29.9 24.0 534.8 558.8 1,260.8 44.3
Australia 2,330.0 95.9 4.1 138.5 1,600.0 1,738.5 4,068.5 42.7
Group total1 8,200.0 85.4 14.6 1,066.6 7,014.9 8,081.6 16,281.6 49.6
1 Numbers have been subject to rounding. Any discrepancies between the total shown and the sum of the amounts listed are due to rounding.
Fair and ethical work practices employee-oriented employer that implements good human
resources management practices.
Our approach
Human rights and labour standards
In addition to local legal compliance, CLP respects
The Group is fully committed to complying with all local laws
internationally recognised human rights relevant to its
and regulations relating to work practices, demonstrating
operations and requires its business partners and suppliers to
respect for all its people, and implementing values-based
do the same.
management in addressing broader social issues.
The commitment to upholding human rights is outlined in CLP’s
GRI reference: 2-23, 2-25, 2-30, 401-2, 402-1, 407-1, 408-1, 409-1
Group Labour Standards. Referencing the United Nations
Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and other
CLP’s human resources policies and procedures are
international standards, they set company-wide minimum
intended to ensure compliance with all local laws and
standards on critical working conditions and the basic rights of
regulations relating to employee compensation and dismissal,
employees in the workplace.
recruitment and promotion, working hours, rest periods,
equal opportunity, diversity, as well as laws combatting
CLP’s commitment is also integrated into its Value Framework
discrimination and, sexual and non-sexual harassment, and
and Responsible Procurement Policy Statement and the newly
those covering benefits and welfare. CLP takes immediate
launched Supplier Code of Conduct (SCoC). EnergyAustralia
action to investigate and address any suspected breaches or
also has its own SCoC and reports annually on the risks of
issues that are brought to its attention.
modern slavery in its operations and supply chains, as well as
the actions taken to address those risks.
Standards and procedures
Beyond compliance, CLP recognises its responsibility to
respect human rights at work, as laid out in international
Read more on CLP's Group Labour Standards
principles, standards, and laws. CLP is a signatory of the World
Business Council for Sustainable Development’s (WBCSD) Call
to Action for Business Leadership on Human Rights, and Human Rights Due Diligence
of the Good Employer Charter established by the Labour As part of its pre-investment decision-making process, CLP
Department of Hong Kong, in which it pledges to be an conducts comprehensive due diligence to evaluate the non-
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 117

--- Page 118 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Customers Our people Partners Community
financial impacts and risks in areas including those relating Supporting our people to speak up and acting on reports
to employment practices, the environmental, local community of wrongdoing
and other stakeholder impacts. Each CLP business has an employee grievance procedure
in place that reflects the CLP's Value Framework and any
CLP conducts internal and external due diligence on applicable local legal requirements. The procedures ensure
performance management and reward practices to ensure fairness and independence in the investigation process and
they are free from gender bias. respect the confidentiality of the parties involved. CLP’s
Whistleblowing Policy enables employees and related third
CLP also implements the risk assessment processes across parties to raise concerns about irregularities through a
the procurement lifecycle to manage ESG issues, including confidential channel.
human rights. For more details, please refer to the Responsible
procurement section. Monitoring and follow-up
Detailed policies are in place in each jurisdiction, based on
Discrimination and Harassment CLP’s Value Framework and Group Labour Standards, that
CLP aims to provide work environments that are free of are fully compliant with local legislation. Regular refresher
harassment or discrimination on the basis of gender, physical training is organised for employees on key topics, including
or mental conditions, race, nationality, religion, age, family CLP's Code of Conduct, business practice review and its
status, sexual orientation, and any other attribute recognised Harassment-free Workplace Policy.
by the laws of the country in which the Company operates.
CLP prohibits child labour and forced labour in all of its
Use of temporary and contractor labour operations, and has stringent checking and control procedures
CLP uses temporary labour for work that is time-bound or in its selection and onboarding processes to enforce this policy.
during periods of peak activity, and engages labour employed
by third parties for non-core work and work requiring Each year, CLP uses independent external consultants to
specialist skills. CLP aims to achieve an optimal balance benchmark remuneration and benefits against relevant
between the insourcing and outsourcing of capabilities, and to recruitment markets. Decisions on remuneration are subject
ensure that the working hours and remuneration of workers to the corporate governance process and the approval of
employed by contractors are fair and reasonable. the Board Human Resources & Remuneration Committee, to
ensure a balance between the interests of both employees
Fair wages and shareholders.
CLP complies fully with all local legal requirements with
respect to the minimum wage. In practice, its remuneration CLP carries out independent audits of its human resources
and benefits for permanent staff often significantly exceed policies and procedures to identify legal non-compliance
local legal minimum requirements. risks and takes remedial action if any are i dentified.
Immediate action is taken to investigate and address any
While it is not Group policy or market practice to provide suspected breaches or issues that are brought to the
the same employment benefits to temporary staff as for Company’s attention.
regular permanent staff, CLP's benefits for temporary staff
are competitive with local market practice and meet or
exceed local legal requirements. CLP monitors pay carefully Read more on breaches of the CLP Code of Conduct
to ensure it is competitive and rewards employees for
individual and company performance. Its core employee
benefits are reviewed regularly to ensure they are fit for
purpose and sustainable.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 118

--- Page 119 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Customers Our people Partners Community
Initiatives and progress Apraava Energy organised awareness sessions titled “Right
Environment at Workplace” in the year. These covered topics
CLP has furthered its efforts to operate ethically and fairly, and such as anti-harassment policies, gender sensitisation, sexual
has continued to receive external recognition for its policies harassment, and grievance resolution.
and practices relating to wages and retirement.
CLP’s Hong Kong businesses were awarded Fair Wage
GRI reference: 201-3 Certificates by the Fair Wage Network in recognition of
their wage policies, practices and ongoing enhancements in
CLP’s Group Labour Standards outline CLP’s commitment to the assessment in prior years. In 2023, CLP improved its
international principles and conventions. They also provide wage communications with employees and the launch of its
details of how CLP delivers on this commitment through refreshed performance management system enabled it to
company-wide minimum standards on critical working place greater emphasis on the linkage between rewards and
conditions, including fair and decent work and working hours, performance, while also streamlining and enhancing the total
and the basic rights of employees in the workplace. The rewards statement for employees.
standards have also been embedded into the procurement
requirements for labour suppliers in Hong Kong, and CLP’s In recognition of its efforts in providing sustainable retirement
tracking and monitoring of its temporary manpower resources benefits, CLP also received awards for “Hong Kong Best
has been strengthened. Relevant expectations of labour ORSO (Occupational Retirement) Scheme” and “Hong Kong
practices and human rights have been embedded in the newly Best Member Communications” in 2023, by Asia Asset
launched Supplier Code of Conduct and communicated to Management. These awards are given to companies in the
CLP’s suppliers. Asia Pacific region for their excellence in managing retirement
benefits for employees. CLP has been a winner for several
In 2023, CLP did not identify any operation or supplier consecutive years.
as having a significant risk of child labour, young workers
exposed to hazardous work, or forced or compulsory labour,
and no breach of laws and regulations in relation to child
labour and forced labour was recorded. Additionally, no Group
operation was identified in which the right to exercise freedom
of association and collective bargaining was violated or at
significant risk.
In 2023, Apraava Energy established a Human Rights Policy
under its diversity and inclusion (D&I) roadmap. Like the
CLP’s Group Labour Standards, it is guided by the United
Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights
and provides a framework for addressing and preventing
associated risks. The policy reflects Apraava Energy’s
commitment to respecting and promoting human rights across
the organisation.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 119

--- Page 120 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Customers Our people Partners Community
Fostering diversity and inclusion Standards and procedures
CLP is a signatory to the International Energy Agency’s Equal
by 30 initiative, a commitment by public and private sector
Our approach
organisations to work towards gender equality in the energy
sector by 2030, and to the Women’s Empowerment Principles
CLP believes having a diverse workforce and an inclusive
established by the UN Global Compact and UN Women in India.
culture supports high performance and its ability to operate
Local Diversity and Inclusion Councils operate in Hong Kong,
effectively in the many communities in which it operates. To
India and Australia that are driving the Company's efforts
this end, CLP has set targets to encourage more women into
on diversity.
the workforce, and policies to help employees better balance
their work and home-life commitments.
CLP’s human resources policies include initiatives to
encourage the retention of employees, such as flexible work
Given the nature of CLP’s business and the markets in
arrangements, maternity leave, and other family-friendly
which it operates, CLP has set gender diversity as a Group-
policies and benefits. CLP’s recruitment processes are
wide priority. Long-term aspirational Group-wide gender
designed to be fair and non-discriminatory. In Hong Kong,
diversity targets have been set that reflect UN Sustainable
its processes follow the Equal Opportunities Commission Code
Development Goals. The targets are:
of Practice, and include the use of consistent selection criteria.
• In other parts of the Group, CLP complies with local legislation
Women in Leadership target: To achieve gender balance in
and codes of practice on recruitment. When conducting senior
leadership positions by 2030, against a 2016 baseline of
level searches, CLP also requires external recruitment firms to
22% of women in leadership positions;
identify candidates with diverse backgrounds, in line with the
•
Women in Engineering target: For 30% of engineers to be Group's values.
female by 2030 compared to a 2016 baseline of 9%; and
•
Equal pay for work of equal value: Ensuring equal pay Monitoring and follow-up
for work of equal value is maintained in all CLP Group Gender diversity progress is reviewed as part of CLP’s regular
businesses, that any gender pay equity gap is eliminated, general management and engineering talent reviews. The
and that CLP meets all relevant local compliance and Board Human Resources & Remuneration Committee reviews
disclosure standards. progress against gender diversity targets annually. CLP also
conducts regular reviews to identify any gender pay gaps, and
to ensure equal pay for work of equal value.
Initiatives and progress The percentages of women identified in succession pipelines,
high potential pools and development programmes were
Management has continued to leverage a variety of targeted around 30%, in line with last year. In Hong Kong, an
programmes and activities to drive improved outcomes in empowerment programme for women called Taking the Stage,
diversity and inclusion. aiming to build confidence and executive presence, was
implemented. In addition, selected female executives also
GRI reference: 202-1, 202-2, 405-2 participated in Board preparation programmes and career
facilitation dialogues.
As of the end of 2023, the percentage of Women in Leadership
roles was maintained (2023: 29.1% vs 2022: 29.1%), while CLP conducted its first D&I employee survey in Hong Kong
Women in Engineering increased slightly (2023: 13.3% vs which attracted over 1,000 responses, and provided insights
2022: 13%). Over the past two years, the number of female to prioritise areas such as promoting flexible working and
graduate trainees recruited in Hong Kong has nearly doubled creating a more inclusive environment. CLP also supported
as part of an enlarged intake. Many female graduate hires employees to establish a Gender Equity support network to
had participated in either CLP’s Female Engineering Student increase employee awareness and programme participation.
Mentoring Programme or had received an Engineering Study Work commenced to refresh CLP's Group Diversity Strategy,
Award to support their final-year studies. which is expected to conclude in 2024.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 120

--- Page 121 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Customers Our people Partners Community
CLP’s principle of equal pay for work of equal value continued Female Representation in CLP
to be upheld. This is achieved through independent external
assessment of job size and complexity together with external Gender workforce participation remained similar in
pay range benchmarking, allowing pay differentials to reflect 2023, taking population changes into account.
only each employee’s experience, performance and certain
market factors. Performance and pay outcomes are reviewed
internally and externally for gender bias, and differences in
the average pay between females and males are moderate
(single-digit difference), except for some technical roles which
are typically dominated by male team members with higher
length of service.
Across the Group, EnergyAustralia continued to conduct
activities to foster its diversity, equity and inclusion as part
of its Diversity, Equity & Inclusion (DEI) Strategy. Work
commenced to refresh EnergyAustralia’s DEI strategy, under
the umbrella of the Group Strategy. In 2023, EnergyAustralia
reaffirmed its commitment to maintaining zero gender pay
gap on a like-for-like job grade basis through annual Workplace
Gender Equality Agency reporting and analysis.
selamef
fo
%
40
30.5%
29.1% 29.1%
30 26.0% 26 2 .0 7 % .3% 26.3% 26.7% 27.2%
24.2%
20
11.4% 11.5% 12.3% 13.0% 13.3%
10
0
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
Women in total employees
Women in Leadership
Women in Engineering
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 121

--- Page 122 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Customers Our people Partners Community
Talent and skills development Enhancing performance management as part of building a
high-performing organisation
CLP revised its performance management system in core
Our approach
markets, to provide enhanced feedback to team members to
support their development as well to increase performance
CLP’s ability to transition to a zero-carbon and
differentiation. Leadership expectations and competencies
digitally enabled future requires systematic organisational
were also been refreshed to set out guidance on the
development, including a fostering of the talent and skills
behaviours and capabilities expected of employees.
required to compete effectively in key markets.
Maintaining core skills and developing new skills for the future
GRI reference: 404-2, 404-3
Skills and safety training are provided to develop technical and
functional competencies and behaviours. All CLP employees
CLP has a comprehensive training and development
participate in an annual performance and development
framework in place, aligned with its business objectives,
cycle which includes at least two performance discussions
to help employees perform competently in their current
each year and provides ongoing feedback and coaching
roles and prepare them for future business challenges and
conversations, clarity in terms of expectations on behaviour
opportunities. Investment is also being made in helping
and performance, understanding of how they contribute to
young people develop and in building future energy industry
CLP’s objectives, and support for individual development
capability that is inclusive and accessible to all.
needs. Cross-functional and 360-degree feedback is included
where appropriate. Through this process, CLP also recognises
Standards and procedures
and rewards individual performance and success. Employees
CLP seeks to attract, retain, and develop a diverse and
are provided the opportunity to continuously learn and
multi-generational workforce, and to develop new skills and
build skill via online and face-to-face learning resources and
share talent effectively across its portfolio of businesses.
programmes, and can access company support for employee-
Internal development efforts are supplemented by external
initiated self-development, including support for job relevant
recruitment for new-to-CLP skills focused on capabilities in
degree programmes or certifications.
innovation, digital and renewables.
Developing leaders
Investing in youth and early careers
CLP's strategy requires a diverse, resilient and agile
Addressing the need for future skills and ensuring an adequate
leadership team with the stakeholder management and
supply of talent for the evolving energy industry requires
change leadership skills to help CLP grow, and high-quality
significant investment in encouraging young people to join CLP,
succession leadership roles in place. CLP remains committed to
and accelerating their early career development.
filling most of its leadership roles internally.
Opportunities for young people are provided in Hong Kong
Strategic, general management and talent development
through mentoring programmes, partnerships with local and
programmes are used to develop future leaders, with
overseas institutions for work placements for secondary and
programmes delivered internally (in Hong Kong through
tertiary-level students, internships for fresh graduates across
the CLP Learning Institute and the Power Academy) and
a range of disciplines, technical apprenticeships, and the
in partnership with leading academic institutions, including
CLP Graduate Trainee Programme. The CLP Power Academy
the International Institute for Management Development
in Hong Kong also offers programmes for school leavers
(IMD), the Tsinghua School of Economics and Management,
and working adults looking to pursue careers in the energy
the Chatham House and the École Polytechnique Fédérale
industry. CLP participates in youth development schemes
de Lausanne (EPFL). Expert briefings and workshops are
such as the HKSAR Government’s Greater Bay Area Youth
conducted on the latest global economic, political and
Employment Scheme. In Mainland China, CLP supports the
technological trends, including those relating to energy
efforts of local technicians and engineers to attain professional
transition, digital disruption, wellbeing and resilience.
engineering qualifications.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 122

--- Page 123 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Customers Our people Partners Community
Monitoring and follow-up key talent, turnover, diversity and employee engagement
CLP conducts regular talent and capability reviews, measures, using developed employee analytics tools. The
underpinned by employee analytics, focused on both general Board Human Resources & Remuneration Committee reviews
management and engineering streams. These reviews monitor talent and capability progress annually.
and follow up on actions to address current and future gaps
and opportunities, including the progress of development Despite the challenges of recruitment and delivering training
programmes, recruitment campaigns, initiatives to strengthen during the COVID-19 pandemic in past years, CLP increased
gender diversity and cross-business assignments. its investment in youth development, core skills training and
leadership development programmes, and invested in training
The effectiveness of this approach is measured against a systems and frameworks.
range of key performance indicators, including retention of
Initiatives and progress strengthen CLP’s career pipelines. Engineering talent rotations
across Hong Kong and Mainland China were scaled up, while
CLP inducted 45 trainees into the Hong Kong Engineering CLP's Energy Transition Experience Programme continued
Graduate Trainee programme in 2023, the largest intake ever to introduce the energy business and its opportunities in
with the highest number of female and Mainland students. Mainland China.
CLP also expanded its recruitment channels with local To support the development of CLP digital talents and
and overseas institutions. Extended recruitment efforts in build their capabilities, targeted initiatives such as the
Mainland China resulted in significantly higher numbers of Digital Talent Day and Digital Trainee Programme were
applicants from Mainland graduates, enriching the talent pool. organised. In addition, the #Leaders of Future, one of
For more information, please see the case study in the 2023 CLP’s leadership development programmes, continued with a
Annual Report. strategic thinking programme facilitated by faculty from the
Ivey Business School to help strengthen participants’ agility
Other development programmes for engineers and managers and foster an innovative mindset, as well as enhancing their
at different stages of their careers progressed, helping to commercial acumen.
Supporting employees to thrive Standards and procedures
in change
Offering flexible, family-friendly working arrangements
CLP aims to support employees through all their life stages,
Our approach from those starting their careers to those reaching retirement.
CLP is committed to developing an engaged and high- People at different life stages benefit from different working
performing workforce, and helping all its people to thrive arrangements. To this end, CLP promotes family-friendly leave
in a period of change brought about by energy transition. policies and flexible working arrangements, and offers a
range of leave options to help its people achieve a good
GRI reference: 401-2, 401-3, 404-2 work-life balance. These include parental and adoption leave,
volunteering leave and study leave. Where practicable in
In the long term it is achieving this by maintaining CLP’s offices and premises, lactation facilities are provided for
strong working relationships with its employees and their mothers in the workforce.
representatives, providing flexible working arrangements
and benefits to support employees through all their life CLP has enhanced its flexible work policies and online
stages, helping employees to strengthen their wellbeing and collaboration tools to enable new ways for employees to
resilience, and providing support and re-skilling opportunities connect virtually and perform their roles better. Working
to employees whose jobs are affected by the transition to net options have been made more flexible, resulting in an
zero or other business restructuring. increased take-up of new part-time work options and work-
from-home arrangements.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 123

--- Page 124 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Customers Our people Partners Community
Investing in health, wellbeing, and strengthening resilience Supporting employees and communities affected by energy
CLP provides comprehensive support for its employees’ transition or business restructuring
physical, social, financial and emotional wellbeing. It is working CLP provides comprehensive support to employees whose
towards meeting the requirements of ISO 45003:2021 jobs are affected by business change or restructuring. Support
Psychological health and safety at work – Guidelines for is tailored to individual needs, and includes training and skills
managing psychosocial risks, as part of the Occupational development, career planning, assistance in redeployment,
Health and Safety Management System. C onfidential and financial counselling. To this end, CLP has actively engaged
employee assistance programmes are also offered to assist with local stakeholders from employee representative
employees encountering work or personal issues and needing organisations and local educational institutions to ensure that
professional support. study opportunities are available to help meet the needs of its
people, and the region's new and emerging industries.
In recognition of CLP’s efforts in promoting employee
wellbeing, CLP received various awards in Hong Kong for its Following the announcement of the 2028 closure of
programmes and for promoting happiness at work and the Yallourn Power Station in 2021, EnergyAustralia implemented
2023 Wellness China Award in Mainland China for its local the Yallourn Workforce Transition Programme to provide
employee health and wellbeing programme. career transition support to employees. The comprehensive
support programme includes components covering employee
Keeping everyone informed and engaged engagement, training, re-skilling and accreditation, fi nancial
CLP’s employee relations approach focuses on establishing advice, job search skills and other specialist support.
and maintaining strong working relationships with employees,
being proactive in consulting on any workplace changes, In 2023, significant efforts have been made in skills-matching
and providing opportunities for employees to raise concerns. with the offshore wind sector as part of EnergyAustralia’s
CLP employees have the right to join organisations and Job Upskilling and Matching Programme. The programme is
professional bodies of their choice. CLP respects and fully designed to help Yallourn workers in finding new employment
complies with all legal requirements with regards to union opportunities. Over 20 employees have expressed a strong
membership and collective bargaining. In Australia, CLP interest in working at a wind farm as their first preference
engages in collective bargaining with nearly 800 employees for jobs. Parallel initiatives have been undertaken to provide
through certified enterprise bargaining agreements approved training to workers interested in exploring new careers in
by the independent workplace relations tribunal, the Fair other areas such as teaching and nursing.
Work Commission. These agreements cover most terms and
conditions of employment, including notice periods, provisions Standards and procedures
for consultation and dispute resolution.
To better understand its employees’ views, CLP commissions
CLP organised the ‘Culture Jam’ Programme in the third independent external consultants to conduct regular
quarter of 2022 for employees in Hong Kong and Mainland employee engagement surveys.
China, to provide an opportunity for two-way dialogue on
ways of working. Building on these efforts, Culture and In Hong Kong, joint consultative committees have been
Leadership Change resources have been made available to established which act as an additional channel of
leaders and team members on the strategic context of various communication between the Company and employees’
projects that impact culture, roadmaps and guidance to representatives. Employee benefits are regularly
implement employee engagement activities at the local level. benchmarked to ensure that appropriate remuneration
packages and staff support is provided.
Further efforts are underway to shape CLP’s culture, including
refreshing CLP’s Value Framework. The introduction of more
digitalised ways of working, new and agile office environments
with tools and support for more collaborative and effective
communication in the workplace, are also part of these
ongoing changes. These will continue in coming years to help
make CLP an even more engaged and better place to work.
Read more on CLP's refreshed Value Framework
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 124

--- Page 125 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Customers Our people Partners Community
Case Study
CLP China won WELLNESS EMPLOYER® Award
On November 29, 2023, the 7th (2023) WELLNESS The Wellness Employer award not only recognises
EMPLOYER® Award, jointly organised by the outstanding efforts and teamwork, but also encourages
China Human Resources Management Research knowledge and experience sharing with other companies.
Association, the World Sustainable Development It motivates CLP to continuously innovate and improve
Leadership Organisation and CIIC, was announced its programme, with the aim of building positive and
in Beijing. CLP China won the WELLNESS healthy organisational relationships, and attracting and
EMPLOYER® Award for its CLP China Employee retaining talent.
Health and Wellbeing Programme.
Director - Human Resources (China and Group Operations)
Ms. Cynthia Lam attended the awarding ceremony and
shared the strategies, systems, and practices of CLP
China's Health and Wellbeing Programme. She emphasised
the CLP core value “Cares for People“ as the backbone
for the programme design, and acknowledged the
strong support from CLP China management that drove
the meaningful and measurable health and wellbeing
outcomes for the workforce.
CLP China has run the Health and Wellbeing programme
since May 2020. Through this programme, CLP China
has have provided Employee Assistance Services to
Ms. Cynthia Lam, Director - Human Resources, CLP China shared the
approximately 700 employees in Mainland China and
achievement with the China wellness team.
their immediate family members. It has included a
24/7 hotline for consultation, a monthly newsletter
and a bi-monthly on-line workshop covering physical,
mental, social, and financial aspects, the 4 pillars of the
CLP health and wellbeing framework. Each workshop
features engagement with a member of the China
Executive Committee (CEC), demonstrating support for
the programme and encouraging employees to lead
healthy lifestyles.
Another major health and wellbeing initiative was the
establishment of the China Digital Health Platform through
the Codoon App in 2021. Through this digital platform,
CLP China regularly organise individual and cross-team
physical activities and competitions to encourage fi tness,
healthy eating habits and quality sleep. Codoon is a very Cynthia was invited to deliver a sharing about the design and
implementation of the CLP China Wellness programme.
popular digital platform among China employees providing
healthy tips and connecting data, people and technology
for engaging and rewarding individual health journeys. The
employee participation rate is above 60%.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 125

--- Page 126 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Customers Our people Partners Community
Health, Safety and CLP has an integrated HSE Policy which in turn drives the
Group’s HSE Management System (HSEMS).
Environment management
The CLP HSEMS covers four areas:
Our approach
•
Leadership and commitment;
Integrating health, safety and environment (HSE) standards •
Planning and support;
across the Group’s businesses and processes helps
•
CLP operate in a safe, secure and environmentally Operational enablers; and
responsible manner. • Monitoring, learning and improving.
GRI reference: 403-1, 403-2
Download the HSE Policy
CLP remains committed to continually improving its HSE
performance by building capabilities and capacities to prevent
harm to its people, assets and the communities in which the
Group operates.
HSEMS core components and relationships
The diagram shows the core components of the HSEMS and The HSEMS Standards are mandatory and assist in supporting
their interrelationships. the detailed requirements of the HSE Policy and Groupwide
HSE risks. The HSEMS Directives supplement the Standards by
CLP’s HSE Policy lays out the strategy, direction, and determining how specific processes are conducted across the
vision for its HSE performance. Developed in line with the Group (e.g., Incident Management). The HSEMS Supporting
HSE Policy, the HSEMS enables CLP to manage risks in a Tools are not mandatory but provide further support or
planned and systematic way while continually improving its guidance on how to meet the HSEMS requirements.
HSE performance.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 126

--- Page 127 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Customers Our people Partners Community
The HSEMS provides: Operational responsibilities
The Group Health, Safety, Security and Environment (HSSE)
•
Clear requirements and expected outcomes based on goal- Committee, chaired by the CEO, has the highest executive
oriented risk reduction; responsibility on HSSE-related issues.
•
Process flexibility to cope with operational diversity (e.g.
The Projects and Operations and Regional Teams (PORT)
size, regions, and nature of work conducted);
and the Global HSE Team conduct monthly and bi-monthly
•
Integration of the feedback loop between CLP Group
meetings respectively to coordinate, monitor and share
requirements and work done by the frontline; and
knowledge and experience in HSE practices across the
Group. Special focus is given to becoming a better learning
•
Less HSEMS clutter (e.g. requirements that are
organisation in order to maintain high levels of safety
unnecessarily duplicated , inconsistent, or contradictory).
performance and build a solid safety culture across the Group.
In addition, various HSE committees have been established
Download the HSEMS Standard
to engage with employees at the operational level, as well as
project partners and contractors. HSE professionals facilitate
the overall engagement efforts and advise on HSE matters,
Download an overview of the safety
while the responsibility for implementing HSE standards rests
and environmental management systems of
CLP’s assets with line management.
Strategies and procedures
To support safe operations, CLP has an HSE Improvement
Strategy with clear objectives, focus areas and timelines,
supported by input by HSE professionals and a
suitable budget.
In line with the Group's HSE Improvement Strategy, an
annual improvement programme is developed, approved and
communicated to staff and contractors in each business unit.
Recommendations are implemented on agreed timelines and
the programme progress is monitored.
For more details, read the Occupational health and
safety section.
Hierarchy of operational responsibilities
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 127

--- Page 128 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Customers Our people Partners Community
Occupational health and safety Safety performance is reported internally every month. Safety
performance data and associated insights are collected and
presented in the monthly and bi-monthly meetings of the
Our approach
PORT and the Global HSE Team. These are also reported on
a quarterly basis to the Group HSSE Committee, chaired by
The Group-wide HSE Improvement Strategy aims to build
the CEO.
individual, team and organisational capabilities and capacities
to prevent harm to CLP's people and assets and the
CLP’s HSE Incident Investigation and Reporting Standard sets
communities in which it operates. Using the Group-wide
out the standard for implementing and maintaining a safety
strategy as its base, each business unit annually develops
incident management system across the Group. In the event
its own HSE action plan.
of a major incident, the CLP Group Incident Investigation Panel
(IIP) is provided with the output investigation provided in
GRI reference: 403-1, 403-2, 403-3, 403-5, 403-7, 403-8
line with the Investigation Report Format Standard. The IIP,
chaired by senior members of staff from outside the business
The CLP Group’s HSE Improvement Strategy in 2023 was
unit in which the accident occurred, conducts a thorough
organised based on five pillars.
investigation to identify factors contributing to the incident
• and actions required to prevent a recurrence. The IIP’s reports
Building capabilities;
are reviewed by the Group Chief Operating Officer and the
•
Rethinking risk; regional Managing Director.
•
Involving stakeholders;
• Training and awareness
Maintaining a healthy and engaged workforce; and
Personnel are only asked to do work in roles for which they are
•
Ensuring environmental sustainability. deemed capable and competent, based on careful selection,
placement, training, ongoing competency assessment and
Each pillar emphasises a key principle of effective HSE authorisation of employees, and third-party independent
management. The strategy is designed to enrich the Group’s assessment where appropriate. A process is in place to deliver
safety culture across its operations in all operating regions, training to ensure individuals understand the hazards, risks
promote more proactive risk management, and engage and control measures associated with their work.
employees, contractors and other key stakeholders to
collectively implement changes that could improve safety At the asset level, there is flexibility to structure health and
performance. There is a strong theme of becoming a better safety measures and design more specific relevant training.
operational learning organisation. This includes monitoring the percentage of contractors who
have undertaken training. Safety training requirements are
In 2024 commencement of the development of a new Group included in all contracts, and all contractors are expected to
HSE Improvement Strategy will be undertaken. This will undergo safety training relevant to their duties. Spot checks
replace the improvement strategy currently being executed are conducted to ensure compliance.
and will build on capabilities gained from previous years.
Continuous improvement
Goals and targets Thorough investigations are conducted into all incidents that
CLP is committed to ensuring all its activities and operations cause or have the potential to cause serious injuries. In 2023
focus on the elimination of fatalities, life-altering injuries, and CLP began the process of evaluating its current incident
the occurrence of significant HSE events. investigation methodology to help further support both better
investigations and identify systemic related opportunities
Monitoring and follow-up for improvement, in line with its adoption of a human and
CLP's HSE Performance Monitoring and Reporting Standard organisational performance focus. The chosen methodology is
contains the safety performance indicators and the the TapRooT® Root Cause Analysis which will be implemented
requirements for safety data reporting used by the (including the patented software system) in CLP's overall
Group. The safety performance indicators identify trends HSE data capture system. Personnel required to conduct
as well as areas which require attention. CLP has investigations will go through new training in 2024 to support
also used targeted engagements and worker insights the revised approach. The aim is to move beyond simply
to help develop comprehensive and effective incident looking at human error as a cause, and to understand the more
prevention interventions. complex latent conditions within the systems where people
operate in that contribute to incidents. CLP is committed
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 128

--- Page 129 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Customers Our people Partners Community
to understanding how decisions and actions are made by Major progress has been made both by adopting technology
employees at a particular point in time in their work, by and redesigning systems work approaches. For example, CLP
understanding the context which our people operate. CLP China introduced robots to clean, polish and repaint wind
is committed to learning from those closest to the work, to turbine towers in two of its sub-regions. Such an initiative
understand its challenges and identify practical improvement eliminates the fall from height risk presented by manual
opportunities. The Group believes that by harnessing frontline painting, with and the additional benefit of being able to
knowledge, CLP will not only get better solutions, but also conduct works without operational interruptions. Not only
foster an environment of ownership from its people who does this have a significant safety impact in reducing CLP's
perform the work. exposure hours to gravitational energy, but it also delivers an
efficiency improvement in cost and schedule.
To find new and better ways of working by learning from
investigations into incidents, in 2023 CLP continued the “Risk – CLP Power also introduced the Mobile 360 Forklift Safety
Gravitational Energy” campaign at its operations. This has the System which both a configurable warning alarm & critical
express goal of reducing activities where gravity may cause zones detection for pedestrian alerts and offers operator
injuries, for instance when working at heights or where objects assistance for distracted driving, drowsiness, smartphone
have the potential to fall. Business units focused on learning usage, smoking and seat belts. The Group continues to focus on
from normal work in a proactive way rather than waiting for digital and technology-based opportunities to assist its people
an event to occur before learning. In this way, CLP is making in performing their daily work safely.
a fundamental shift in approach by utilising learning teams in
work streams where no injury event has actually occurred. In
Read the case study on how robots help to
2023, once again there was a CEO Award at its annual event
eliminate driving risks
which recognises work done in materially reducing exposure
to gravitational energy.
Read the case study on Hong Kong’s first mobile
safety training
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 129

--- Page 130 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Customers Our people Partners Community
Initiatives and progress safety by examining the incident to manage and reduce critical
risks in future.
It is a matter of profound regret that Apraava reported a
fatality in the first half of 2023. The fatal incident involved a SASB reference: IF-EU-320a.1; GRI reference: 403-4, 403-5, 403-6, 403-9,
contractor at Apraava Energy’s Sidhpur wind farm in Gujarat 403-10, EU17, EU18
state. CLP is deeply saddened by the incident, which occurred
in May, and Apraava Energy has taken measures to improve The key safety metrics are summarised in the table below.
Regional safety performance 1(employees/contractors)
Employees and
Hong Kong2 Mainland China Australia Total3 contractors
combined3
Fatalities (number) 0/0 0/0 0/0 0/0 0
Fatality rate (number per 200,000 work hours) 0.00/0.00 0.00/0.00 0.00/0.00 0.00/0.00 0.00
Days away from work injuries (number
of personnel) 1/5 0/0 1/3 2/8 10
Lost time injury rate (number per 200,000
work hours) 0.02/0.07 0.00/0.00 0.05/0.19 0.03/0.09 0.06
High-consequence injuries (number
of personnel) 0/0 0/0 0/1 0/1 1
Total recordable injury rate (number per
200,000 work hours) 0.11/0.15 0.00/0.00 0.19/0.64 0.13/0.22 0.18
Work-related ill health (number of personnel) –
employees only 0 0 3 3 3
Lost days (number) – employees only 8 0 117 125 125
1 The LTIR and TRIR figures are for work-related injuries only (excluding work-related ill health and commuting related injuries), in line with requirements of Global
Reporting Initiative. There were three work-related ill health (employee only) and two commuting related injuries (employee and contractor combined) in 2023.
2 Hong Kong includes all staff from CLP Power Limited, CLPe Holdings and CLP Holdings because of the change of CLP's organisational structure.
3 Apraava Energy ceased to be a subsidiary and is now accounted for as a joint venture. Apraava Energy is excluded in the figures for 2023, but included in figures for
2022 and prior years. Moreover, in November 2022, CLP sold its 70% interest in the coal-fired Fanchanggang Power Station, which has been excluded from CLP’s
reporting scope since then.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 130

--- Page 131 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Customers Our people Partners Community
Lost time injury rate and total recordable injury rate of CLP Group (employees and contractors combined)
Both the lost time injury rate (LTIR) and total recordable injury rate (TRIR) decreased in 2023. Primarily the reduction
in incidents for both CLP Power and Energy Australia are the key drivers for the overall rates. Both business units
implemented a range of initiatives focused on issues such as assurance and inspection, stakeholder engagement, key
critical risk areas and improved wellness offerings. Additionally, Apraava data is no longer captured and does not
feature in the 2023 group statistics.
0.45
0.38
0.32
0.3
0.25
0.23
0.18
0.15
0.11 0.11
0.10
0.07
0.06
0
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
Lost time injury rate Total recordable injury rate
1 All rates are normalised to 200,000 worked hours, which approximately equals to the number of hours worked by 100 people in one year.
Lost time injury rate (LTIR) by region (employees and contractors combined)
The LTIR decreased in 2023 for all regions.
0.3
0.26
0.21
0.2 0.19
0.16
0.15
0.11 0.10 0.11
0.1 0.09
0.05
0.04
0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
0
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
Hong Kong Mainland China Australia
1 All rates are normalised to 200,000 worked hours, which approximately equals to the number of hours worked by 100 people in one year.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 131

--- Page 132 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Customers Our people Partners Community
Total recordable injury rate (TRIR) by region (employees and contractors combined)
The TRIRs for all regions decreased in 2023.
0.75
0.63
0.5 0.48
0.45
0.42
0.39
0.38
0.34
0.26
0.25
0.16
0.15
0.14
0.09
0.05
0.04
0.00
0
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
Hong Kong Mainland China Australia
1 All rates are normalised to 200,000 worked hours, which approximately equals to the number of hours worked by 100 people in one year.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 132

--- Page 133 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Customers Our people Partners Community
Partners
Overview
Area of stakeholder interest Relevant sustainability agenda
•
Public policy Transition to net zero
•
Code of Conduct and anti-corruption •
• Investing in zero-carbon energy infrastructure
Legal compliance
•
Supply chain management Energy growth opportunities
•
Responsible procurement
•
Creating new revenue streams as other sectors electrify
Community stewardship
•
Promoting responsible supply chains
Outcome for stakeholders
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 133

--- Page 134 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Customers Our people Partners Community
Public policy the sustainable development of energy systems. Through its
participation in a range of industry and professional bodies,
CLP is also providing input into the major issues affecting the
Our approach
energy sector and establishing itself as a thought leader for
the industry.
CLP is dedicated to acting as a trusted partner to
governments and regulators while advocating collaborations
CLP maintains a politically neutral stance and refrains from
among the business community to shape practices and
making political contributions. When considering proposals for
services that contribute to developing sound government
CLP to become a member of an organisation, the respective
energy policies and laws that balance social, economic and
Corporate Affairs teams review the proposals based on CLP’s
environmental needs.
business objectives and the purposes of engagement. All
membership proposals are subject to the final approval of
GRI reference: 2-28, 415-1
the senior management of the Group or its Business Units.
In response to the climate crisis, energy transition is a
critical priority for governments around the world. CLP is Download CLP's Policy on Making
continuing to engage with governments and regulators to Political Contributions
formulate decarbonisation policies and plans, while promoting
Initiatives and progress CLP maintains regular communication with government
officials and legislators through channels such as site
CLP has continued to strengthen its communication with visits and information sharing sessions, to facilitate mutual
governments, regulators and standard setters, as part of understanding of strategies and policy directions relevant to
its efforts to contribute its knowledge, experience, and best the shaping of a low-carbon future. CLP also actively responds
practices to government decision-making and to promote to major public policy consultations and develops carefully
sustainable development within the energy sector. considered positions relevant to the energy sector on ways
forward for the energy industry and the community.
GRI reference: 2-28, 201-4, 415-1
CLP Power’s Five-Year Development Plan to Fuel
Joint efforts by the private and public sectors are crucial
Hong Kong’s Revitalisation and Development
to addressing the emerging challenges in the energy sector.
In Hong Kong, CLP Power has been actively collaborating
CLP’s responses to major public policy consultations,
with the Hong Kong SAR Government on the Development
along with its position on critical issues such as climate
Plan under the current Scheme of Control (SoC) Agreement,
change, are available on the Company’s websites and other
which sets out the electricity regulatory framework and
online channels.
mechanism for the supply of electricity to the city. Approved
by the government in November 2023, the new five-y ear •
CLP Power has pledged full support for the Hong Kong
Development Plan for 1 January 2024 to 31 December 2028
SAR Government’s Hong Kong’s Climate Action Plan 2050
provides strong support for the government’s policy priorities.
since its announcement in 2021. One of the government’s
It focuses on investments designed to drive Hong Kong’s
key strategies is to encourage motorists to switch to
economic and infrastructural development, the continued
electric vehicles (EVs). In support of the government’s EV-
delivery of a world-class reliable electricity system, the
charging at Home Subsidy Scheme, CLP Power launched
transition to becoming a smart and resilient city, and the
the advanced service Eco Charge 2.0 in 2020. EV charging-
continuation of the decarbonisation journey.
enabled infrastructure was successfully installed in several
private residential blocks in 2023. The first project
In addition, the 2023 Interim Review of the SoC Agreement
completed under the scheme has converted more than
between CLP Power, Castle Peak Power Company Limited
300 existing parking spaces by installing an EV charging-
(CAPCO) and the Hong Kong SAR government was
enabling infrastructure. The largest project, located in Yuen
completed. Agreements were reached on the incentive
Long, has seen EV charging-enabled infrastructure added
and penalty mechanism, fuel cost arrangements in the
to more than 400 parking spaces.
event of a fuel crisis, and further enhancement to
information transparency.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 134

--- Page 135 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Customers Our people Partners Community
• •
In October 2023, CLP Power together with 14 businesses CLP contributed to the public consultation on proposals
and organisations launched a cross-sector partnership to enhance climate-related disclosures under the
called the eMobility Network to further promote the environmental, social and governance (ESG) framework
wider use of electric commercial vehicles (ECVs) in Hong introduced by the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited
Kong. This partnership, comprising ECV manufacturers and (the Exchange). The proposals outline detailed climate
operators, charging service providers and a bank offering disclosure requirements which better align with the
green finance services, aims to facilitate technology International Sustainability Standards Board (ISSB) Climate
exchange, accelerate the popularisation of ECVs and Disclosure Standard for Hong Kong-listed companies.
support government policies promoting the new energy
transport industry. CLP Power is also collaborating with None of CLP’s businesses receive any significant government
the government and the transport industry on e-transport financial assistance.
trials for buses, public light buses, taxis and ferries.
• CLP supports and actively participates in a range of
EnergyAustralia is strongly committed to engaging with
organisations that enable it to keep abreast of different
policymakers at all levels to advance the country's clean
stakeholders’ views, navigate policy uncertainties and shape
energy transition. Policy developments are expected
informed policymaking. The table below outlines the total
to promote investments which enable more renewable
amount CLP has contributed to organisations i nfluencing
energy to enter the grid reliably and affordably.
public policy. These contributions include membership fees,
EnergyAustralia is also continuing to work with partners to
donations, sponsorships and input into policy position papers.
ensure a reliable supply of clean energy to meet customer
CLP has a general policy of avoiding political contributions, and
demand and support the transition to a lower-carbon
no contributions were made to political parties, government
power market.
officials or political candidates during the year.
•
Apraava Energy actively contributes to domestic and
global discussions on energy and climate change-related
legislative and regulatory changes. For example, it
participated in stakeholder consultations by the Bureau
of Energy Efficiency (BEE) regarding the design of the
National Carbon Market in India. Apraava Energy is also
a member of the Product Advisory Committee of the
National Commodity and Derivatives Exchange (NCDEX)
which is involved in designing the derivatives market for
carbon markets.
Contributions to organisations
2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
Lobbying, interest representation or
0 0 0 0 0
similar (HK$M)1
Local, regional or national political campaigns,
0 0 0 0 0
organisations or candidates (HK$M)1
Trade associations or tax-exempt groups (e.g.
8.05 8.69 14.12 8.90 8.04
think tanks) (HK$M)1,2
Others (e.g. spending related to ballot measures
0 0 0 0 0
or referendums) (HK$M)1
1 Apraava Energy ceased to be a subsidiary and is now accounted for as a joint venture. Apraava Energy is excluded in the figures for 2023, but included in fi gures
for 2022 and prior years.
2 Includes contributions to trade associations or tax-exempt groups that seek to influence public policy in the form of memberships, donations or sponsorship. The
scope was reviewed in 2023.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 135

--- Page 136 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Customers Our people Partners Community
CLP prioritises its engagement with organisations that are organisations listed below (in alphabetical order) through
actively involved in climate change and broader energy membership, sponsorship and other contributions, including
market policies. Significant resources are devoted to the active participation by CLP senior management.
Organisation Description of organisation CLP contributions and engagement
Australian The AEC represents 20 major electricity and downstream The Managing Director of EnergyAustralia was previously
Energy Council natural gas businesses operating in the competitive Chair of the AEC. EnergyAustralia continues to actively
(AEC) Australian wholesale and retail energy markets. participate in its various working groups on a range
of competitive energy market issues. For example, an
EnergyAustralia representative currently chairs AEC’s
Sustainability Working Group.
Business Council The BCA is a CEO-led industry association representing EnergyAustralia is a BCA member and supports the BCA's
of Australia (BCA) more than 100 of Australia’s largest businesses. It supports advocacy for a national, bipartisan energy and climate
the transition to a more carbon-efficient economy, with the change framework that can deliver against reliability,
goal of net-zero emissions by 2050. affordability and sustainability objectives.
Business The BEC is an independent, charitable organisation CLP actively participates in or sponsors events, public
Environment established by the business sector in Hong Kong, which consultations and working groups organised by the BEC.
Council (BEC) promotes environmental excellence by advocating for the It is also a signatory of the BEC Low Carbon Charter and the
uptake of clean technologies and practices. Power Up Coalition.
Confederation The CII is a not-for-profit industry-led organisation. It Apraava Energy has been a member of CII for more than
of Indian Industry works to create and sustain an environment conducive a decade. Its Managing Director is the Co-Chairman of the
(CII) to the development of India through various advisory CII National Committee on Power, and its Chief Operating
and consultative processes. It works closely with the Officer is currently a member of the India CEO Forum for
Indian government on policy issues, interfaces with Clean Air, operating under the CII National Initiative Cleaner
thought leaders, and looks to enhance industry efficiency, Air Better Life. Through these engagements, Apraava
competitiveness and business opportunities. Energy plays an active role in representing the power sector
in India on relevant issues.
Energy The ETC is a London-based international think tank CLP joined the ETC in August 2018 and has contributed to the
Transitions supporting energy transition by educating about credible, ETC's work programme and publications by participating in
Commission (ETC) accelerating transitions towards universal, clean energy the ETC Commissioners Meetings, the ETC Representatives
systems across the world. It aims to inform decision-makers Meetings and ETC Communications Club Meetings.
in both the public and private sectors, and support leaders in
more rapidly deploying low and zero-carbon solutions.
Free Electrons A global accelerator programme for electric utilities, Free CLP has participated in Free Electrons since 2019 and hosted
Electrons enables startups to work closely with utilities to the Grand Finale of the programme in Mumbai in 2023.
develop digital solutions to the challenges arising from the The 2023 programme attracted applications from over 500
increase of renewable energy and the decentralisation of start-up companies worldwide, and CLP collaborated with
energy systems. at least three startups to pilot their innovative solutions.
IFRS Foundation The IFRS Foundation develops internationally CLP is supporting the development of globally comparable
recognised disclosure standards that bring transparency, sustainability disclosure standards in its role as an inaugural
accountability and efficiency to financial markets. member of the International Sustainability Standards
Responding to the need for consistent and comparable Board’s IFRS Corporate Champion. The programme was
sustainability information, it created the International launched by the IFRS Foundation in 2023. Through
Sustainability Standards Board (ISSB) in 2021 to develop this programme, CLP is playing an active part in the
IFRS Sustainability Disclosure Standards. corporate community by helping to shape best practices
in sustainability disclosures for the industry.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 136

--- Page 137 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Customers Our people Partners Community
Organisation Description of organisation CLP contributions and engagement
International IERE is a worldwide, non-profit organisation for exchanging CLP joined IERE in 2000 and has been an Executive Member
Electric Research electricity and energy-related cutting-edge technologies since 2014. Currently, CLP representative also serves as
Exchange (IERE) as well as research and development information the Treasurer. CLP continues to work with IERE on the
among its members from the electricity and energy joint research and development programme and Technology
supply industry, equipment provider businesses, academic Foresight activities, including participating in the IERE
research, government, etc. General Meetings and workshops.
Kadoorie Farm KFBG raises awareness of ecological and sustainability CLP has been supporting KFBG’s 10-year forest restoration
and Botanic issues, undertakes species conservation and ecosystem programme since 2022. This programme is helping build
Garden restoration, reconnects people with nature, and promotes knowledge and capacity in reforestation, supporting
Corporation sustainable lifestyles. ecosystem recovery, and exploring nature-based solutions
(KFBG) for carbon offsetting. By 2023, a total of 3,514 seedlings
were planted (of the 25,000 planned for this project),
representing 109 species belonging to 36 botanical families,
before the end of the rainy season in August.
The Hong Kong HKGCC is a member-led organisation dedicated CLP actively participates in and sponsors events, public
General Chamber to improving the business environment in Hong consultations and working groups organised by the HKGCC.
of Commerce Kong and its competitiveness. It’s membership The CLP Power Chairman is currently serving as the
(HKGCC) is composed of around 4,000 companies, which Chamber’s Chairman. CLP’s senior management are also
include multinational companies, SMEs and start-ups, from supporting the Chamber’s work in its various Committees as
Hong Kong, Mainland China and internationally. Chairman and Vice Chairman.
The Hong Kong HKIoD is Hong Kong’s premier body representing In 2022, CLP became a founding sponsoring partner of
Institute directors, and works to foster the long-term success the HKIoD-hosted Hong Kong chapter of the Climate
of Directors of companies through advocacy, standards-setting in Governance Initiative, a programme that aims to raise
(HKIoD) corporate governance, and professional development awareness of and focus on climate issues among
for directors. company directors.
World Business A global, CEO-led organisation of over 200 businesses, CLP actively participates in the WBCSD’s programmes
Council for the WBCSD is working to accelerate the transition to and working groups. In support of the WBCSD’s
Sustainable a sustainable world. Its Sustainable Development Goals Roadmap to Nature Positive for the energy system,
Development are being pursued through six work programmes: Circular CLP’s representatives joined the respective working
(WBCSD) Economy, Cities & Mobility, Climate & Energy, Food & Nature, group and shared practical experience in tackling nature-
People & Society, and Redefining Value. related issues.
World Energy The WEC is a UN-accredited global energy body formed in CLP began participating in WEC as a member organisation in
Council (WEC) 1923 with more than 3,000 member organisations in over 1988. Since the formal establishment of the Hong Kong
90 countries. WEC informs global, regional and national member organisation (WEC-HK) in 2016, CLP’s former
energy strategies by hosting high-level events, publishing CEO has been serving as Chair and representing WEC-HK
authoritative studies (e.g. the World Energy Trilemma and its members. In 2023, CLP contributed to the WEC-
Index), and working through its extensive member network sponsored BBC documentary series Humanising Energy
to facilitate global energy policy dialogue. with a Hong Kong-centric e-mobility film titled "Charting a
Quieter Course".
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 137

--- Page 138 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Customers Our people Partners Community
Case Study
Promoting joint efforts to develop the Greater Bay Area and achieve
carbon peaking and carbon neutrality goals
With more than 40 years of business development
in Mainland China, CLP is playing a vital role in
supporting the national “3060” dual carbon goal
(i.e. achieving carbon peaking by 2030 and carbon
neutrality by 2060). To this end, CLP is actively
promoting different forms of partnership in the
public and private sectors in the Greater Bay Area
and Mainland China, driving collective momentum
in energy transition and climate actions.
With the aim of promoting the growth of the regional
power industry, CLP hosted the 11th Guangdong, Hong Kong
Governor of Shandong Province Mr Zhou Naixiang (left) with CLP Chief
and Macau Power Industry Summit in Hong Kong from
Executive Officer Mr T.K. Chiang.
31 May to 2 June 2023. Themed “Embrace Opportunities
in Decarbonisation and the Greater Bay Area”, the summit To showcase CLP’s decarbonisation journey, CLP
brought together approximately 80 senior executives participated in the 24th Conference on the Electric Power
from CLP, China Southern Power Grid Co., Ltd., Companhia Supply Industry (CEPSI 2023) from 19 to 23 October in
de Electricidade de Macau - CEM, S.A. and China General Xiamen, Fujian Province, which brought together around
Nuclear Power Group. During the three-day summit, 1,000 power companies across the Asia-Pacific region.
the four companies released a Manifesto on enhancing Under the theme “Low-Carbon Energy Powering a Green
cooperation in areas such as securing power supply, Future", CLP took this opportunity to stage an exhibition
promoting the sustainable development of new energy promoting its Climate Vision 2050 and introducing its
and energy storage systems, and building a collaborative vertically integrated power supply business in Hong Kong
energy ecosystem in the Greater Bay Area. The manifesto and CLP China’s operations in 15 provinces, autonomous
upholds the principles of equality and mutual benefit, and regions and municipalities, covering an array of generation
enables CLP to actively explore new forms and areas of sources including wind, solar, hydro, nuclear, and coal
cooperation to create a better future for the region. as well as its energy storage solutions. The exhibition
also highlighted CLPe’s one-stop energy solutions for
CLP is also working to power the high-quality development customers in the commercial and industrial sectors.
of Mainland China’s green economy. CLP Chief Executive
Officer Mr T.K. Chiang pledged his support for the
sustainable development of the energy sector in Mainland
China at the Fourth Qingdao Multinationals Summit,
jointly hosted by the Ministry of Commerce of the
People’s Republic of China and the People’s Government of
Shandong Province, which took place from 10 to 12 October
2023. This reflects CLP's strategic positioning in Shandong
Province where CLP has developed wholly-owned wind
farms in Penglai, Laizhou, and Laiwu with a combined
capacity of almost 600 MW (including contributions from
minority-owned assets) to meet the rising demand for
renewable energy in the region.
CLP Power Managing Director Mr Joseph Law delivers a keynote address
titled “CLP Power – Acceleration to Net-Zero” at CEPSI 2023.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 138

--- Page 139 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Customers Our people Partners Community
Case Study
Powering Hong Kong's growth and prosperity through a new five- year
Development Plan
As Hong Kong’s largest power company with a One of the government's policy priorities is to reinforce
legacy stretching over 120 years, CLP has always Hong Kong’s competitive edge through new development
been committed to supporting the city's long-term areas and infrastructure, which will act as engines for
development and prosperity. future growth. In the new Development Plan, CLP Power
has confirmed a range of investments to meet the
CLP Power's new Development Plan for 2024 to emerging demand for energy from new development
2028 estimates a capital expenditure of approximately areas, large-scale infrastructure projects, new energy
HK$52.9 billion on investments that will provide strong transportation and new areas of housing supply. At the
support for the Hong Kong SAR Government’s policy same time, CLP Power will continue to maintain world
priorities, including developing new areas of economic class reliability by providing a stable power supply at a
growth to reinforce Hong Kong’s advantages as a global reasonable cost.
city and supporting the city’s decarbonisation process.
The new Development Plan was approved by the In line with the government's vision of building Hong Kong
Executive Council of the Hong Kong SAR Government into a world-class smart city, CLP Power is leveraging its
in November 2023 under the current Scheme of Control expertise to help the city embrace new technologies and
(SoC) Agreement. other innovations in its energy system. Key initiatives
highlighted in the new Development Plan include the
Hong Kong is CLP's home market. Here, CLP operates a further roll-out of smart meters, tower strengthening
vertically integrated power supply business and supplies and network reinforcement work, the introduction of grid-
highly reliable electricity to over 80% of the city’s scale batteries, and pilot hydrogen blending. To support
population. In the new Development Plan for 2024 to Hong Kong's transition to a lower-carbon future, CLP
2028, CLP Power commits itself to a range of investments Power is also continuing to progressively phase out coal-
that will support Hong Kong’s accelerating economic fired generation, and is working with the government to
and infrastructural development along with its long-term expand the proportion of natural gas and non-fossil fuels in
decarbonisation goals. the city’s fuel mix by the interim milestone of 2030.
Five areas of investment focused on delivering the Hong The tariff adjustment and the CLP Community Energy
Kong SAR Government's policy priorities: Saving Fund (CESF) for a range of support programmes for
2024 are included in the first year of the new five-y ear
Development Plan.
CLP Power’s Five-Year Development Plan
to Fuel Hong Kong’s Revitalisation and
Development, and 2024 Tariffs
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 139

--- Page 140 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Customers Our people Partners Community
Code of Conduct and anti-corruption
Download CLP’s Anti-fraud Policy
Our approach
CLP has a Whistleblowing Policy in place to encourage
CLP has built a reputation as an established and trustworthy and assist employees and related third parties (including
business partner when it comes to upholding business conduct customers and suppliers) who engage with CLP to raise
and ethics. Guided by CLP’s Value Framework and Code of concerns about any real or perceived misconduct, malpractice
Conduct, its employees are committed to acting with integrity or irregularity. The Whistleblowing Policy is available to the
and honesty in all their business activities and standing fi rm public in both English and Chinese. Concerns can be reported
against corruption within the Group. independently to CLP Group Internal Audit 24/7 through a
dedicated and confidential whistleblower hotline or email. Any
GRI reference: 2-24, 2-26, 205-1, 205-2, 205-3 concerns received are handled with care and treated fairly
and properly.
CLP’s Code of Conduct sets out 15 Principles that guard
against corruption within CLP. The Code is applicable to
the entire Group, including CLP Holdings and its wholly Download CLP’s Whistleblowing Policy
owned subsidiaries, joint ventures and companies under CLP’s
operational control. It is available to the public in both English
and Chinese. Training and awareness
Code of Conduct training is mandatory for all staff joining
the Company. CLP promotes the Code of Conduct and
15 Principles of CLP’s Code of Conduct
Whistleblowing Policy to employees, on a regular basis, by
advising of any updates or revisions.
Every four years, the Company conducts a Group-wide
Business Practice Review (BPR). This review includes refresher
training for all employees to reinforce their understanding of
the Code’s Principles, and to ensure business practices remain
compliant and ethical.
During the review sessions, potential issues are raised and
reviewed with management. A number of case studies based
on past violations are included to demonstrate the proper
way to handle potential and actual situations involving Code
violations. Contractors are encouraged to attend the sessions
All CLP employees, irrespective of their position and function, alongside CLP employees.
are expected to fully adhere to these principles. In the case
of joint ventures or companies in which CLP does not hold a The latest BPR training was completed in 2022 for all regions,
controlling interest, representatives are also expected to act in including Hong Kong, Mainland China, India, and Australia. The
accordance with the Code and to make a concerted effort to next round of BPR training is scheduled to commence in 2025.
influence those with whom they are working to follow similar
standards. Contractors working for CLP are encouraged to Monitoring and follow-up
follow the Code for the duration of their contract. The General Representation Letter (GRL) process serves as
a reporting mechanism for instances of non-compliance with
In addition to the Code, CLP has implemented an Anti-Fraud the Code of Conduct. Leaders in areas of responsibility are
Policy as part of its Corporate Governance Framework. This required to sign a GRL annually addressed to the Group
is aimed at preventing and controlling fraud activities such Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Chief Financial Officer (CFO),
as corruption, conspiracy, embezzlement, money laundering, outlining their area’s adherence or otherwise to the Code of
bribery and extortion. Conduct, amongst other Company policies.
This process reinforces the need for personal responsibility
Download CLP’s Code of Conduct
for good governance, and facilitates internal assessment of
the adequacy and effectiveness of controls at different levels
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 140

--- Page 141 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Customers Our people Partners Community
within CLP. As part of this annual process, business practices GIA regularly reviews compliance with the Code, and
are reviewed and fraud risks in different areas are assessed, investigates any potential violations except those related
with any irregularities or exceptions being reported to senior to human resources, which are investigated by the Human
management. Leaders including managers or above, Finance Resources (HR) department. The number of Code breaches and
and Procurement staff, secretaries in the Group, and other key any cases of corruption are reported annually to the Audit
staff identified by management, must also sign an annual Code & Risk Committee (ARC), with the relevant data verified by a
of Conduct Compliance Statement. third party.
The Group-wide reporting system for Code of Conduct To expedite responses to Code of Conduct violations
violations applies to any alleged or potential breaches. in Australia, EnergyAustralia has been delegated the
Potential cases of the Code of Conduct violations can be responsibility of managing and addressing violations by
reported to Group Internal Audit (GIA) by employees, vendors, its employees. Under this arrangement, EnergyAustralia
contractors and GIA auditors through anonymous letters, informs the ARC of CLP Holdings of cases involving senior
emails or phone calls. The Group Code of Conduct Committee, EnergyAustralia employees.
which comprises the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Strategy,
Sustainability & Governance Officer and the Chief Human At Apraava Energy, a separate Internal Complaints Committee
Resources Officer, reviews and endorses any disciplinary has been established to handle complaints of sexual
measures to be taken. harassment at the workplace in accordance with Indian laws.
Initiatives and progress Regarding whistleblowing cases, nine cases were received in
2023 compared with five in 2022.
In 2023, 12 breaches of the Code of Conduct were reported,
though none were financially or operationally material to the Records of confirmed cases of Code of Conduct
Group, nor did they involve employees at the grade level of Principles breaches during the past five years are shown
senior manager and above. in the table below. Between 2019 and 2023, CLP did not
have any breaches related to six Code of Conduct principles,
GRI reference: 406-1, 417-2, 417-3 namely Political Contributions, Gift & Entertainment, Laws
& Regulations, Representation, Response to Incidents, and
In addition, there were no convicted cases of corruption. The Compliance & Report.
breaches were managed internally in accordance with CLP’s
complaint handling process for Code of Conduct breaches.
Code of Conduct Principles
2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
Zero Harm Vision1
Includes issues regarding health and safety, and alcohol and drug abuse. 0 0 0 0 0
Respect for People1
Includes discrimination, harassment and other issues related to not
2 5 4 8 17
respecting people.
Ethics and Business Integrity1
Includes unethical business behaviour related to integrity, honesty
0 2 10 1 13
and fairness.
Other Principles1
Includes Conflicts of Interest, Company Policies, Financial Controls,
10 3 4 16 1
Protecting Information & Assets, and Meeting Responsibilities.
Total 12 10 18 25 31
1 Apraava Energy ceased to be a subsidiary and is now accounted for as a joint venture. Apraava Energy is excluded in the figures for 2023, but included in fi gures
for 2022 and prior years.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 141

--- Page 142 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Customers Our people Partners Community
Legal compliance In reviewing new and amended laws and regulations which
came into effect during the 2023 reporting year, CLP has
identified those which had or will have a significant impact on
Our approach
the business for inclusion in this report. The threshold applied
for assessing inclusion in the report is whether s ignificant
The CLP Group operates in multiple jurisdictions, each with
investment or expenditure was or will be required to ensure
its own distinct legal and regulatory requirements. Ensuring
compliance. Laws and regulations that met this threshold are
compliance with these requirements is a top priority for CLP in
outlined in the respective sections of this report:
terms of maintaining its business credibility and social licence
to operate.
1. Emissions – laws and regulations addressing air and GHG
emissions, discharges into water and land, and generation
CLP aspires to go beyond meeting its basic legal requirements
of hazardous and non-hazardous waste;
and to apply international best practices in its operations. It
therefore voluntarily follows high standards that reflect the 2. Employment – laws and regulations regarding
Company’s principles and values, and is prepared to forego compensation, dismissal, recruitment and promotion
opportunities or advantages where necessary in order to practices, working hours, rest periods, equal opportunity,
uphold the highest standards of corporate governance and diversity, anti-discrimination measures and other b enefits
integrity. Specific policies and guidelines for each operational and welfare;
area are in place and are reviewed regularly to assist CLP in
3. Health and Safety – laws and regulations providing for
ensuring compliance with the differing jurisdictional laws and
safe working environments and protecting employees from
regulations. These policies and guidelines set the standards
occupational hazards;
and requirements for compliance with laws relating to
4. Labour Standards – laws and regulations preventing child
competition, personal data and privacy, intellectual property,
and forced labour;
health and safety, environmental protection, emissions,
employment and human resources amongst others. Any 5. Product Responsibility – laws and regulations on consumer
compliance issues are escalated according to the policy data protection and privacy; and
requirements and in accordance with the code of conduct
6. Anti-corruption – laws and regulations on bribery,
and applicable laws. Adherence to policies and procedures is
extortion, fraud and money laundering.
also evaluated by CLP’s internal audit function in accordance
with their audit cycles and assessment scope.
Initiatives and progress
Monitoring and follow-up
There was one new reportable case of legal non-compliance
One of the ARC’s responsibilities is to review and monitor the
in 2023.
Company’s compliance with the Code of Conduct, as well as
the Company’s policies on compliance with applicable legal and
SASB reference: IF-EU-140a.2, IF-EU-550a.1; GRI reference: 2-27, 205-3, 206-1,
regulatory requirements such as the Hong Kong Exchanges
306-3 (2016), 411-1, 413-2, 416-2, 417-2, 417-3, 418-1, EU22, EU25
and Clearing Limited (HKEx) Listing Rules, the Companies
Ordinance (Hong Kong) and the Securities and Futures
In the spirit of transparency and accountability, CLP reports
Ordinance (Hong Kong). The ARC also reviews regulatory and
cases of legal non-compliance annually in its Sustainability
legal issues. Every six months, Group Legal Affairs compiles
Report. These include cases of criminal convictions against
a CLP Group Key Regulatory and Legal Compliance Issues
CLP, and major breaches that resulted in significant fi nes
Report, which covers key regulatory compliance issues and
(greater than HK$1 million) or equivalent non-monetary
legal cases involving CLP as a defendant, for submission to
sanctions. CLP’s 2023 legal compliance performance is
the ARC.
summarised below, according to the GRI Standards 2021
and the HKEx Environmental, Social and Governance
CLP is often confronted with changes in the legal and
Reporting Guide.
regulatory regimes of the jurisdictions in which it operates. The
Company closely monitors emerging regulations and ensures
The Company is also exposed to the risk of contractual
that it is prepared for changes. CLP’s businesses in each
disputes and litigation in the course of its normal operations.
jurisdiction have a process in place for monitoring, tracking
The Group considers each instance separately in accordance
and documenting all applicable legislation and amendments
with legal advice and makes provision and/or discloses
to it, and ensuring details are communicated to all relevant
information as appropriate.
personnel, business units and management.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 142

--- Page 143 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Customers Our people Partners Community
Legal non-compliance
Number of cases Supplementary information
Business practices
Anti-corruption No reportable cases Read more in the Code of Conduct and anti-corruption section.
Anti-competitive behaviour No new reportable cases in The Ho-Ping litigation is against a penalty for alleged concerted action with
2023. There is one existing other independent power producers (IPPs) in violation of the Taiwan Fair Trade
and previously reported case Act. The Taiwan Fair Trade Commission (FTC) in 2013 ruled and fined nine IPPs
involving Ho-Ping Power for alleged cartel behaviour. Ho-Ping filed litigations against the FTC penalty.
Station in Taiwan, in which The FTC’s decision was eventually overruled by the Taipei High Administrative
the CLP Group has a 20% Court (THAC) in October 2014. However, the FTC successfully appealed the
equity interest THAC’s decision to the Supreme Administrative Court (SAC), and the case
returned to the THAC for re-examination. In May 2017, the THAC ruled again
in favour of Ho-Ping and rejected the FTC’s decision. In June 2018, the SAC
accepted FTC’s further appeal and, for the second time, returned the case to the
THAC for re-examination. In June 2020, the THAC ruled in favour of Ho-Ping
for the third time, and the FTC once again appealed to the SAC. In August 2022,
the SAC ruled in favour of FTC. Ho Ping submitted an application for a retrial in
September 2022. As at December 2023 there had been no new progress on the
application for a retrial.
In April 2023, Ho-Ping lodged an administrative appeal which was rejected
by the SAC. In June 2023 Ho-Ping filed an administrative proceeding which
was brought to the first preparation proceedings court in November 2023. The
court proposed that both FTC and Ho-Ping undertake mediation before the
matter proceeds further, to which both parties agreed and await a timetable
for the mediation.
Employees and contractors
Employment practices No reportable cases -
Labour standards (child and No reportable cases -
forced labour)
Occupational health One reportable case from As reported in the 2022 sustainability report, in December 2021, the Victorian
and safety an existing and previously Workcover Authority (WorkSafe Victoria) laid charges against EnergyAustralia
reported event involving Yallourn regarding three breaches of the Occupational Health and Safety Act
Yallourn Power Station in in relation to the death of Graeme Edwards at Yallourn Power Station in 2018.
Australia, in which the The three charges were related to failures to, so far as reasonably practicable,
CLP Group has a 100% provide and maintain a working environment that was safe and without risk to
equity interest health. At the committal mention on 3 June 2022, a plea of guilty was entered
in relation to the charges brought by WorkSafe Victoria. At the sentencing
hearing on 13 February 2023, EnergyAustralia Yallourn was fined a total of
A$1.5 million. EnergyAustralia paid this fine in 2023.
Customer
Customer privacy No reportable cases Read more in the Customer privacy section.
Product and service No reportable cases
information and labelling
and marketing information
Access to electricity No reportable cases -
Customer health and safety No reportable cases -
Community
Rights of Indigenous people No reportable cases
Environment
No reportable cases Read more in the Monitoring and compliance of emissions and other nature-
related regulations section.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 143

--- Page 144 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Customers Our people Partners Community
Number of cases Supplementary information
Other
- There was one new case in 2023 On 15 May 2023, the Australian Energy Regulator notified EnergyAustralia
related to EnergyAustralia in of its Board’s decision to issue EnergyAustralia with six infringement notices
which CLP Group has a 100% (A$67,800 each) totalling A$406,800 for failure to comply with the National
equity interest. Gas Rules. The infringement notices have been paid. The infringement notices
related to two failings by EnergyAustralia to accurately submit certain
information required under the National Gas Rules to the Australian Energy
Market Operator during the period from 1 July 2020 to 23 December 2021.
Supply chain management Strategies and procedures
The GPS sets out a framework for strengthening CLP’s supply
chain management capability to support its “Power Brighter
Our approach
Tomorrows” vision and match world-class procurement
practices. The GPS provides a structured path for the business
CLP endeavours to build a value chain that supports its core
to deliver value outcomes in the four areas mentioned above,
environmental, social and business objectives. In collaboration
and is regularly reviewed internally.
with its suppliers, CLP has extended its responsible business
principles to promote good working practices throughout the
The latest version of the GPS, which places a special emphasis
entire supply chain.
on safety across the supply chain, was released in early
2022. Its five dimensions are:
CLP's effective procurement and supply chain management
system cultivates long-term and mutually b eneficial •
Corporate strategy and guiding principles
relationships with suppliers who share CLP’s values and
•
goals. The system is centred on the CLP Group Procurement Business value outcomes
Standard (GPS) which is supported by a set of policies that •
Future-fit structures and collaboration
include CLP's Value Framework, CLP Procurement Values and •
People and technology
Principles, CLP SCoC and other procurement policies that
•
govern daily CLP operations. Change management
The system aims to continually improve CLP's competitive For each dimension, the GPS defines levels of world-class
advantages by building commercially viable strategic practice from “basic” to “advanced”. Each business unit
relationships with preferred suppliers. It evaluates business assesses the level of functional capability it requires to support
value outcomes based on total cost of ownership its business outcomes, and then develops a plan to progress
management, environmental, social and governance (ESG) from its current level towards more advanced practices.
value, supply chain resilience and innovation.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 144

--- Page 145 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Customers Our people Partners Community
CLP's Group Procurement Standard
CLP’s Whistleblowing Policy and Harassment-Free Workplace Procurement team has enhanced its in-house capacity by
Policy are also part of CLP's procurement operations, and CLP bringing in a sustainable procurement specialist to support
encourages all suppliers to uphold the principles outlined in the planning and implementation of procurement practices
these policies. relating to sustainability.
The CLP Procurement team actively participates in Procurement and business unit personnel work
membership of project steering committees, providing collaboratively to review and assess the performance of
appropriate levels of oversight and governance in incumbent suppliers in the market. They also monitor
procurement decision-making. Procurement commitments sustainability risks in the areas of human rights/modern
in the Company’s various regions are made with reference day slavery, environment and community. These initiatives
to the clearly-defined authorities set out in the Company provide useful information for formulating effective sourcing
Management Authority Manuals. strategies as well as managing risk and supplier relationships.
Monitoring and follow-up To better manage supplier clusters, CLP segments its
CLP’s fit-for-purpose sourcing strategies are designed to contracted suppliers into tiers based on relative contract value
identify suppliers that best meet its requirements and that and potential business impact, including risks in relation to
deliver value at an acceptable level of risk. supply chain and sustainability factors. The tiers are reviewed
on an annual basis. This process of segmentation allows CLP
Under the standard procedure, supplier selections are to apply appropriate levels of governance and engagement for
conducted through competitive tendering which assesses more efficient supply chain management.
each supplier’s ability to fulfil criteria of quality, health
and safety, environmental protection, delivery, innovation, In addition, regular risk assessments are conducted
sustainability and cost. Every supplier contract is designed to according to the Corporate Risk Matrix for strategic
safeguard CLP stakeholder interests and ensure the supplier suppliers with high business criticality and spend value.
meets its commitments and obligations in areas such as legal The assessments are conducted in conjunction with supplier
and regulatory compliance, intellectual property rights, data risk management and supplier relationship management
confidentiality and security. processes, covering modern slavery, labour practices, supplier
continuity, employee health and safety and cybersecurity.
The Procurement Leadership Team, comprising each Risk mitigation plans are developed to address i dentified
Region’s head of procurement, oversees aggregated future risks related to delivery performance, supply disruptions,
procurement needs, supply market opportunities and risks, business continuity and sustainability along the supply chain.
and the development of procurement strategies. The Group Regular meetings with suppliers are conducted to discuss the
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 145

--- Page 146 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Customers Our people Partners Community
progress of mitigation plans and explore opportunities for Past performance data, future business needs, and technology
further improvement. and innovation roadmaps are regularly reviewed with
suppliers. While supplier performance is measured under
Continuous improvement a structured framework, CLP also values direct feedback
Through year-round operational, business, and executive from its suppliers. This offers candid two-way communication
reviews, CLP continues to enhance its supplier relationship opportunities and, when it has a specific focus on
management process for strategic suppliers. The reviews technology roadmaps and innovation, helps CLP prepare for
consistently assess the delivery performance of each strategic future challenges.
supplier, and are used to drive ongoing improvements.
Initiatives and progress Number of suppliers by region in 2023
All suppliers contracted for critical projects were subject to The highest number of CLP's active suppliers are
sustainability risk assessments, representing 55% of the total in Australia.
procurement project spend.
Australia 1,853
GRI reference: 2-6, 2-24, 204-1, 308-1, 308-2, 407-1, 408-1, 409-1, 414-1, 414-2
Mainland China 1,090
CLP defines critical projects by considering their importance to
its business operations, as well as their sustainability risks and Hong Kong 1,030
contract value.
India 3
Suppliers of critical projects are assessed on their Others
63
(Asia Pacific)
sustainability practices through tools such as questionnaires,
proposal evaluations, site visits, and where subcontracting Europe 96
is involved, audits on the subcontractor's capability to meet
America 78
project requirements.
Rest of the world 2
In 2023, all critical projects awarded underwent sustainability
risk assessments. These critical projects represented 55% of 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
total procurement projects by value, as compared with 51% in
5
1,
0 1,5
2,
0 2,5
3,
0
2022, and 67% in 2021. Number
In 2023, the Group sourced products and services from 4,215
suppliers to the total amount of HK$42 billion – 52% of this
total was spent on local suppliers based in the respective Hong
Kong, Mainland China, India and Australia markets. Charts on
the number of suppliers by region and the spend per region are
shown below.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 146

--- Page 147 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Customers Our people Partners Community
Payment to suppliers by region in 2023 members, including those from non-procurement functions,
for awareness raising. In the case of medium to large
Total value of payments to suppliers in 2023 was businesses lacking policies or practices prohibiting child
highest in Mainland China. labour or forced, bonded or involuntary prison labour,
EnergyAustralia provides them with tools for developing such
policies and practices in alignment with EnergyAustralia’s
Australia 10,831 SCoC. Small business suppliers are asked to confirm in
writing that they will abide by EnergyAustralia’s SCoC, and
Mainland China 15,346
EnergyAustralia subsequently conducts surveys to monitor
Hong Kong 10,205 their compliance.
India 24
EnergyAustralia remains committed to fostering indigenous
Others
3,905 inclusion by including indigenous participation clauses in
(Asia Pacific)
its supplier contracts, particularly for contracts relating to
Europe 1,300
generation sites. By doing so, it seeks to encourage its
suppliers to help drive indigenous inclusion by increasing
America 409
their indigenous business spend and employment as well as
Rest of the world 3 boosting their cultural awareness.
0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 In 2023, EnergyAustralia redesigned its market templates to
5,
1
0, 15,
2
0, 25,
include questions relating to participants’ indigenous supplier
HK$M engagement in areas such as employment and supplier base.
These questions are enabling EnergyAustralia to differentiate
participants and gain insights into the progress suppliers
In Hong Kong, CLP Power introduced several initiatives in 2023
have made towards working with Aboriginal and Torres Strait
designed to enhance the procurement team’s capabilities for
Islander communities and businesses.
managing its supply chain and associated risk. These included:
• These initiatives stem from EnergyAustralia’s Reconciliation
Contract law training sessions to reinforce the
Action Plan (RAP) strategy. The release of the second
understanding of key contract terms relevant to
“Innovated” RAP in 2023 further clarified EnergyAustralia’s
potential supply chain disruptions or supplier non-
commitment to promoting reconciliation and cultural
compliance events;
understanding as well as enhancing relationships with
•
A Know Your Counterpart (KYC) questionnaire was
Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples and
launched and screening of existing and potential suppliers
organisations. This year, members of the workforce
was put in place to identify potential compliance and
participated in various local cultural learning sessions in
sanction risks arising from third party suppliers;
Gippsland, Victoria, Lithgow and New South Wales. These
•
A Learning Portal was created to encourage self-learning in sessions provided them with a closer connection with local
Commercial and Supply Chain Management; and Traditional Owners and Custodians, as well as enhancing their
• understanding of the connections between EnergyAustralia’s
A Supplier Survey was conducted to understand CLP's
project sites and local history and culture.
position in suppliers’ markets.
By year end, the procurement team reported that it had
In Australia, in line with its obligations under the Australian
sourced goods and services from 17 indigenous suppliers with
Modern Slavery Act 2018, EnergyAustralia submitted its
a total of A$669,749 in spending.
third Modern Slavery Statement to the government in
2023. To assess the risk of modern slavery to its
operations, EnergyAustralia used an in-house developed
risk matrix based on supplier locations and commodities.
This matrix has a special focus on modern slavery and
enables the identification of high-risk suppliers. Subsequently,
EnergyAustralia reviewed the policies, processes and internal
governance practices of these suppliers. A training series
on modern slavery was also delivered to over 150 team
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 147

--- Page 148 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Customers Our people Partners Community
Responsible procurement CLP proactively engages with suppliers to promote
responsible procurement practices for a sustainable supply
chain. Since the release of its Supplier Code of Conduct (SCoC)
Our approach
in 2022, CLP has been widely communicating the values,
policies, standards and objectives embedded in the SCoC
As a responsible business, CLP is committed to building a
with its supplier community. The SCoC outlines responsible
value chain that, at its core, shares responsible procurement
procurement practices that support CLP’s environment, social
practices; at the same time, CLP requires its business partners
and business objectives in 11 areas:
to be in alignment with its targets and objectives.
GRI reference: 2-24, 407-1, 414-2
For each of these, the SCoC specifies practices that the added to supplier contract templates and to EnergyAustralia
supplier must comply with and others that they should Purchase Order Terms and Conditions.
work towards achieving. While the SCoC is embedded in CLP
tender documents and contracts, CLP also encourages its
Download EnergyAustralia's Supplier Code
suppliers to monitor, manage and disclose their performance
of Conduct
in accordance with the SCoC. CLP extends similar principles
to its own upstream supply chains. Since the release of the
Operational responsibilities
SCoC, over 500 of its suppliers have agreed to abide by
CLP’s contract terms and conditions include s pecific
the SCoC requirements. In 2023, CLP also conducted on-site
sustainability requirements and expectations regarding
due diligence checks on selected suppliers based on the
business ethics. Suppliers are encouraged to align with the
SCoC principles.
requirements and expectations stated in the ScoC and are
expected to adopt similar standards and practices when doing
business with the Company.
Download the CLP’s Supplier Code of Conduct
CLP’s responsible procurement team actively engages
EnergyAustralia’s latest SCoC also reflects CLP Group’s with key internal and external stakeholders to promote
responsible procurement practices. It includes a procurement practices that reduce ESG risks and enhance
whistleblowing channel that suppliers may contact directly supplier capabilities to meet CLP’s sustainability expectations.
or raise any concerns with anonymously. The Code has been The Company is striving to shift from a reactive approach
of risk mitigation to a proactive approach of advancing
opportunities in the strategic sustainability agenda.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 148

--- Page 149 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Customers Our people Partners Community
Strategies and procedures Specifically, the risk assessment process aims to help
CLP takes a risk-based approach to responsible procurement CLP manage ESG issues such as labour practices, human
across the procurement lifecycle. ESG risks are identified and rights, modern slavery, child labour, harassment, safety,
evaluated regularly at category, project and supplier levels, environment, subcontractor management and anti-bribery
taking into account responsible procurement practices. This along the value chain. The risk assessment results provide
evaluation considers the following risks: insights for developing sourcing strategy and risk mitigation
measures for strategic suppliers in each category.
•
Country-specific risks;
• Training and development
Product/service-specific risks;
CLP regularly conducts workshops for contractors to raise
•
Industry/category-specific risks;
their safety and environmental awareness and capability.
•
Legal and regulatory compliance risks; To enhance the professional development of contractor
• staff, workshops and training on procurement practices and
Cybersecurity risks;
supplier relationship management are conducted regularly.
•
Labour practices and sub-contracting risks;
•
Health and safety risks;
•
Governance and business conduct risks;
•
Environmental risks;
•
Operational/supply chain risks; and
•
Brand and reputational risks.
Initiatives and progress In the first year of the three-year Roadmap, foundational
capabilities and aspirations for sustainability in procurement
CLP is strengthening its Responsible Procurement Framework were established. Currently, a Supply Chain Risk management
and enhancing the visibility of its supplier sustainability risk, as framework is under development. This will help assess a
part of its three-year Responsible Procurement Roadmap. supplier’s sustainability profile by considering their industry
and geographical location. All active and new suppliers will
Endorsed by the Sustainability Executive Committee, the be assessed to identify sustainability risk hotspots, and
Roadmap builds on five strategic directions, namely be informed of further actions required, including possible
building suppliers’ awareness, assuring suppliers’ compliance, support to improve their sustainability performance. The
managing priorities, driving positive impact and getting launch of the proposed assessment process is planned
stakeholders’ recognition. for 2024.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 149

--- Page 150 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Customers Our people Partners Community
Community
Overview
Areas of stakeholder interest Relevant sustainability agenda
•
Providing access to reasonably priced energy Community stewardship
•
Community investment •
• Ensuring thriving communities
Safety around CLP’s network
•
Nuclear safety
Outcomes for stakeholders
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 150

--- Page 151 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Customers Our people Partners Community
Providing access to reasonably Across the Group, measures have been put in place to
ensure that social and physical challenges will not prevent
priced energy
people from accessing and using the Company’s products
and services. These include challenges relating to language,
Our approach culture, literacy, financial situation and disability.
In the context of electricity supply, ‘access’ means the In Hong Kong, CLP Power offers a braille bill for those who
availability of a reasonably priced and reliable electricity are visually impaired. In Australia, EnergyAustralia provides
supply. CLP understands that electricity services are essential interpreter services for those with a first language other than
and strives to make them available to all. English, and also offers hearing-impaired and vision-impaired
billing services.
Initiatives and progress CLP Power also provided subsidies and one-stop support to
enable landlords of subdivided units to carry out rewiring
Various subsidy schemes and hardship programmes in Hong works and install individual electricity meters for tenants
Kong and Australia are in place to relieve those in need and of subdivided units, a move that has improved the safety
safeguard their access to electricity. Special arrangements are of the units and enhanced tracking of electricity usage.
in place to ensure that customers facing financial d ifficulties The programme was launched in January 2019, and by the
can avoid disconnection to their electricity supply. end of 2023 the programme had supported the rewiring
of 79 subdivided units and the installation of 274 individual
SASB reference: IF-EU-240a.3 electricity meters.
Hong Kong
CLP is committed to maintaining electricity tariffs at
reasonable levels while ensuring power supply reliability.
CLP’s tariff adjustments have been relatively stable over
the years, due to prudent cost management and controls
combined with a strategy of using a diversified fuel mix,
utilising more natural gas, less coal, and importing zero-
emission and relatively stably-priced nuclear power. While
international fuel prices have fallen from their peak and appear
to have stabilised, CLP Power will continue to adopt a prudent
cost control approach in its management of electricity tariffs.
Soaring international fuel prices and a surge in the fuel cost
for electricity generation since January 2021 have led to an
increase in the Fuel Cost Adjustment. To ease the burden on
families in need, CLP Power allocated HK$110 million in 2023 to
In 2023, CLP Power announced over HK$200 million in community support, with
the CLP Fuel Cost Subsidy Programme, which provided one-off HK$110 million allocated for subsidising the fuel expenses of 150,000 grassroots
fuel cost subsidies to 150,000 underprivileged households families and tenants of subdivided units.
and tenants of subdivided units in its supply area. The
Company also allocated HK$20 million to subsidise families
in transitional housing in their purchase of e nergy-efficient
electrical appliances.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 151

--- Page 152 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Customers Our people Partners Community
Australia EnergyAustralia also partnered with various organisations to
EnergyAustralia recognises that all customers should have directly assist customers facing financial hardship and improve
fair and equal access to its products and services. their energy efficiency:
Through its Energy Charter, EnergyAustralia is committed to
•
collaborating with customers to improve energy affordability, Member of the One Stop One Story Hub Partnership,
energy efficiency and provide support to customers in which supports people facing family and domestic violence
vulnerable circumstances. or financial hardship by helping them navigate support
programmes and reduce the need for multiple interactions.
•
Download EnergyAustralia’s Energy Charter Partnered with Uniting Energy Audits to provide customers
2022 disclosure with energy-efficiency information via a home or
phone audit, thus helping them to reduce their energy
The rising cost of living continues to present challenges consumption and bills.
•
for many Australians. To support households facing short- Partnered with The Good Guys to assist with the delivery of
term financial difficulties, EnergyAustralia continued to new appliances and the removal of old ones as part of our
offer payment plans and payment extensions, as well as appliance swap programme.
providing information on available government assistance.
The EnergyAssist hardship programme offers support to Furthermore, EnergyAustralia's business customers can
customers experiencing financial hardship by providing access support through the Rapid Business Assist programme,
additional tailored solutions that include customised payment launched in 2020 to support small to medium enterprises
plans, payment matching, debt waivers, and e nergy-efficiency facing financial uncertainty. In consultation with these
education. These measures are ensuring that customers customers, the Company customised payment schedules were
are well-informed when making decisions about their developed, advice on reducing energy consumption were
energy consumption. provided, and guidance on accessing government energy-
relief subsidies was offered.
Read more on EnergyAustralia’s Hardship Policy
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 152

--- Page 153 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Customers Our people Partners Community
•
Community investment Support projects or programmes that offer an opportunity
for CLP’s employees to participate; and
•
Our approach Regularly evaluate the outcomes and impacts of
its contributions.
CLP’s community initiatives, sponsorship and donation
activities complement other elements of its operations to
Download the CLP Group Community Initiatives,
build and maintain trust from its stakeholders and sustain a Sponsorship and Donation Policy
harmonious relationship with the community. CLP's approach
is to apply its skills and resources strategically to projects,
Strategies and procedures
programmes and initiatives that have a positive impact on
CLP’s community investment strategy is guided by the CLP
community development in the short and long term.
Group’s Community Initiatives, Sponsorship and Donation
Policy. This sets out principles and directions for implementing
The Group is committed to contributing to programmes
community initiatives across all CLP’s business units
which support healthy, resilient and sustainable community
and group functions. Sitting alongside the Company’s
development over the short and long term. In line with the
corporate governance and internal control measures and
CLP Group Community Initiatives, Sponsorship and Donation
its standardised online reporting platform, the policy aims
Policy on community engagement, the Company aims to:
to facilitate a coherent and transparent approach to the
• assessment, design, review and reporting of CLP’s community
Support projects or programmes that align with the needs
activities. It ensures that resources are deployed to meet the
and expectations of local communities and respect their
community’s needs effectively and in a timely manner.
cultures, traditions and values;
•
Support projects or programmes that are systematically The community investment strategy focuses on four key
managed with clearly defined objectives and areas: Community Wellbeing, Environment, Education and
expected outcomes; Development, and Arts and Culture. Each business unit
• Foster enduring partnerships with credible international, implements the strategy according to local conditions and
national, regional and local community organisations, non- community needs.
governmental organisations and charities;
CLP’s Community Initiative Approach
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 153

--- Page 154 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Customers Our people Partners Community
Monitoring and follow-up suitable of these are used to review the effectiveness of CLP's
The CLP Group’s Community Initiatives, Sponsorship and community initiatives.
Donation Policy is reviewed every three years to ensure it
remains aligned with the Group’s development and changes CLP has a standardised online reporting system for reviewing
in the external environment. A review was conducted in 2023 and reporting on its community initiatives. The system is
which reaffirmed that the policy in use has proved to be designed to enhance the overall effectiveness and e fficiency
comprehensive and aligns with megatrends and the local of these initiatives by aggregating data on themes, partners,
needs of different regions. spending, beneficiaries, volunteer hours and impacts.
Different tools for evaluating the socio-economic impact of
community initiatives have been benchmarked, and the most
Initiatives and progress
CLP Power launched a series of community support programmes in 2023, which are mentioned in the following case study section.
GRI reference: 201-1, 203-1, 203-2, 413-1
2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
Direct beneficiaries1 626,000+ 1,305,000+ 1,580,000+ 918,000+ 615,000+
Organisations benefitted1,2 291 280 232 263 401
1 Apraava Energy ceased to be a subsidiary and is now accounted for as a joint venture. Apraava Energy is excluded in the figures for 2023, but included in fi gures
for 2022 and prior years.
2 Organisations benefitted include professional bodies, academic institutes, NGOs and community groups.
Beneficiaries by theme
Of the more than 626,000 beneficiaries in 2023, 46.7% benefitted from CLP's Education and Development programmes.
The main contributor was the POWER YOU Kindergarten Education Kit programme which targets all kindergarten
children in Hong Kong.
Environment: 25.7%
Community
Wellbeing: 22.7%
Education and
Development: 46.7%
Arts and Culture: 4.9%
20231
1 Apraava Energy ceased to be a subsidiary and is now accounted for as a joint venture. Apraava Energy is excluded in the figures for 2023.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 154

--- Page 155 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Customers Our people Partners Community
Volunteering services in Hong Kong bounced back as pandemic were implemented across Hong Kong, China, and Australia
restrictions were lifted locally. However, the increase was in 2023. The amount donated by CLP for charitable and
offset by a decrease in China and Australia due to the launch other community purposes decreased to HKD$9.18 million.
of new programmes with different focuses and a review of Community spending by theme and geography is summarised
volunteer policy respectively. More community programmes in the charts below.
2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
Amount donated for charitable and other
purposes (HK$M)1,2 9.18 10.02 15.09 27.00 20.98
Volunteer hours (hours)1,2 16,701 19,329 16,541 10,973 20,015
Programmes implemented (number)1 458 481 443 468 663
1 Apraava Energy ceased to be a subsidiary and is now accounted for as a joint venture. Apraava Energy is excluded in the figures for 2023, but included in fi gures
for 2022 and prior years.
2 Numbers have been subject to rounding.
Community spending by theme
The largest percentage of community spending was directed to environment initiatives (58%), followed by community
wellbeing initiatives (31%).
Environment: 58%
Community
Wellbeing: 31%
Education and
Development: 6%
Arts and Culture: 2%
Community
Engagement: 3%
20231
1 Apraava Energy ceased to be a subsidiary and is now accounted for as a joint venture. Apraava Energy is excluded in the figures for 2023.
Community spending by region
The largest percentage of community spending was directed to Hong Kong (98%).
Hong Kong: 98%
Mainland
China: 1%
Australia: 1%
20231
1 Apraava Energy ceased to be a subsidiary and is now accounted for as a joint venture. Apraava Energy is excluded in the figures for 2023.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 155

--- Page 156 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Customers Our people Partners Community
Case Study
EnergyAustralia’s workplace giving programme passes A$2 million
in donations
EnergyAustralia actively engages with its local refreshed its volunteering policy to provide additional
communities through volunteering, workplace giving and flexibility. Since implementing this change, over 600 of
social investment. EnergyAustralia's employees have volunteered a total of
1,400 hours in their local communities.
In 2023, over A$200,000 in Community Grants
was awarded to 38 local community programmes To extend EnergyAustralia's support further, the Company
near EnergyAustralia's power stations and Geelong End of Year Giving Appeal resulted in a donation of
contact centre. A$54,000 to its Workplace Giving charity partners. In
addition, EnergyAustralia's contributed over A$10,000
worth of toys and hamper items through donations to
local Christmas appeals in its communities. Dedicated
volunteers in Melbourne and Geelong sorted the donated
presents to give underprivileged children the joy of
receiving gifts at Christmas. Furthermore, a team of
volunteers assembled 21 items of furniture for three
Melbourne families who were setting up new homes after
experiencing family violence and homelessness.
As part of EnergyAustralia's Workplace Giving programme,
staff donations are made to nine charity partners EnergyAustralia volunteers assembled IKEA furniture and sorted presents
through pre-tax donations, which are then matched by as part of the End of Year giving appeal.
EnergyAustralia. EnergyAustralia continue to have one
of the highest participation rates among all participants Find out more on local community initiatives
in Australia, and in July 2023, the Company celebrated at EnergyAustralia
surpassing A$2 million in donations to our charity partners
within the first five years of the programme.
Read more on each business unit's community
programmes in the Annual Report
EnergyAustralia's employees are granted 16 hours of
paid volunteering leave each year. In 2023, the Company
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 156

--- Page 157 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Customers Our people Partners Community
Case Study
A new cultural hub to promote heritage, culture and green education
CLP Pulse is housed in the Grade 1-listed CLP
clock tower building built in 1940. Formerly CLP’s
Head Office, the building has been transformed
into a museum that showcases the intertwined
histories of Hong Kong’s electricity development
and the Kadoorie Family. It also promotes
decarbonisation and sustainable development
through experiential activities.
May 2023 saw the opening of CLP Pulse, a new museum
featuring themed exhibitions on the history of the
electricity industry in Hong Kong, its pivotal role in shaping
the city’s development, and the influence of the Kadoorie
family on the modernisation of Hong Kong as well as the
intangible cultural heritage of Hong Kong. The exhibitions
promote heritage, culture and environmental education. CLP Pulse, a unique cultural hub housed in CLP’s renovated clock tower
building, promotes heritage, culture and green education for the benefit of
CLP Pulse is housed in CLP’s iconic 80-year-old clock the Hong Kong community.
tower building on Argyle Street, which once served as
the headquarters for CLP Power. Listed as a Grade 1
historic building by the Antiquities and Monuments O ffice
in 2018, it is one of Hong Kong’s few remaining examples of
international modernist architecture. Entry to the museum
is free of charge, and complimentary guided tours and
experiential activities are available.
From its opening in May up to the end of the year, CLP Pulse
welcomed over 46,000 visitors. The museum also provides
a permanent headquarters for the Hong Kong Heritage
Project, which gives access to a rich and storied archive
that encourages and facilitates scholarship in local history.
The themed exhibition “ElectriCity” at CLP Pulse offers an extraordinary
experience for visitors, enabling them to feel the impact of climate change
and explore ways of navigating the journey to a zero-carbon future.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 157

--- Page 158 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Customers Our people Partners Community
Case Study
Connecting the elderly with society
CLP Power has launched a series of social events CLP has four Hotmeal Canteens in Sham Shui Po, Kwun
and digital lessons in Hong Kong to help elderly Tong and Kwai Tsing districts, which provide nutritious hot
people stay socially connected. meals to people in need and offer a place for them to meet,
socialise, and connect with the community. In 2023, the
To bridge the digital divide and empower the elderly, CLP CLP Hotmeal Canteen programme served its one millionth
Power launched “Sharing the Festive Joy – F un4Infinity” hot meal to the community, and a celebration lunch was
in the year. This programme teaches the elderly how to held in April to mark this milestone. CLP volunteers visit
use commonly used mobile applications through digital the Canteens regularly to help serve meals and organise
device classes, provides them with practical opportunities thematic activities such as games and art workshops.
to apply digital skills in their daily lives, and offers These activities promote physical and mental health while
guided tours around local neighbourhoods. CLP Power demonstrating care to people in need.
collaborated with 4 NGO partners to organise more than
50 digital classes with practical activities for over 600
elderly people.
To celebrate the Tuen Ng Festival, Mid-Autumn Festival
and Senior Citizens Day with the elderly, CLP Power
organised visits to the Xiqu Centre and the Hong Kong
Palace Museum to explore Chinese culture. Volunteers
helped the elderly visitors to apply their newly acquired
digital knowledge during the visit, for instance by using
QR codes to order desserts and by playing online energy-
saving games. Over 300 CLP volunteers took part in the
digital classes and practical activities, sharing their love
and care with the elderly in their digital journeys.
The CLP Hotmeal Canteens have served up more than one million meals,
at the same time providing a place for people to socialise and connect with
the community.
The ‘Be Dementia Friendly’ programme was launched in
the year, designed to help elderly people exhibiting early
signs of dementia by providing interactive services that
can delay cognitive decline. CLP organised five workshops
during the year. In December, a trial run of the 'Be
Your Peer Community Power Journey' led by trained
retirees was organised for elderly participants in the
'Be Dementia Friendly' programme to interact with CLP
volunteers and the community.
The Sharing the Festive Joy – Fun4Infinity programme empowers the
elderly with digital technology, offering practical opportunities to bridge
the digital divide.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 158

--- Page 159 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Customers Our people Partners Community
Case Study
Providing opportunities for young people and nurturing
future generations
In the face of the challenges encountered by than 2,100 students have benefitted from the courses
fresh graduates and career starters, CLP Power offered by the academy since it was founded in 2017,
is dedicated to addressing the working needs of highlighting the academy’s role in nurturing young people
local youth and providing support in collaboration and working adults, providing a career pathway for
with various partners to boost opportunities people without conventional academic qualifications and
for youngsters. widening the engineering talent pool.
In collaboration with the Correctional Services The CLP Power Academy launched a pioneering training
Department, CLP Power is helping young people in course in 2022 for Hong Kong engineering personnel
custody and those who have been released with their to gain high-voltage electrical qualifications in Mainland
reintegration into society by organising career talks, China in a joint initiative with the Guangzhou Industry
interview skills workshops, caring visits, induction courses and Trade Technician College and the VTC. The first cohort
and special internships. Approximately 130 young inmates graduated in June 2023 and a new training course for
have benefited from the programme, gaining information low-voltage electrical work was launched in April 2023.
on continuing their studies and exploring pathways
in engineering. CLP is committed to promoting a low-carbon and energy-
saving lifestyle through innovative tools and public
CLP Power supported the government’s Strive and Rise education programmes. Its Power Kid Mobile application
Programme 2022/23 by nominating 16 mentors, including has been updated with a 3D interface, offering new games
graduate trainees, young engineers, and representatives and expanded sections promoting messages of energy
from various business units. These mentors participated in efficiency and low-carbon living to children. The updated
a one-year mentorship programme, with 6 of the mentors application was launched at the annual Hong Kong Book
pairing with underprivileged junior form students on a Fair, which attracted over 35,000 visitors to the CLP booth
one-on-one basis. They accompanied the students in a across its seven days. The newly revamped application has
wide range of activities, including 25 visits to CLP facilities been downloaded more than 11,000 times since its launch.
such as the CLP E-Playground, CLP Learning Institute and In addition, a new 3D cartoon video featuring sustainable
Low Carbon Energy Education Centre, providing them with living habits was launched in 2023. CLP's graduate trainees
valuable life and study advice. CLP is continuing to support and young engineers continued to visit local kindergartens
the Strive and Rise Programme 2023/24 by nominating 11 to talk about the power generation journey, the safe use of
mentors to join the one-year mentorship programme. electricity, the work life of engineers and to offer energy-
saving tips. Approximately 50,000 children in over 600
CLP supported the Hong Kong Federation of kindergartens have been reached so far.
Youth Groups for the CLP Energy for Brighter
Tomorrows Award, providing scholarships for 20 CLP’s commitment to nurturing future generations
young people with outstanding achievements in battling extends to primary schools, with 17 primary schools
against adversity. Nine CLP colleagues acted as mentors having been accredited as Green Elites campuses under
for the students. Since its launch, a total of 100 students the CLP Green Elites Campus Accreditation Programme.
have been awarded scholarships. This brings to almost 120 accredited schools under the
programme, recognised for their efforts in promoting
In addition, the CLP Power Academy collaborated with energy saving, renewable energy and environmental
education institutions in Hong Kong and overseas including protection on campus.
the Vocational Training Council (VTC), Scotland’s University
of Strathclyde and Australia’s RMIT University to offer a Since its launch in 2016, the “Engineer in School
range of electrical and mechanical engineering courses for Programme” has motivated secondary school students
students from different educational backgrounds. More to save energy and explore careers in power engineering.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 159

--- Page 160 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Customers Our people Partners Community
CLP engineers have engaged with more than 63,000 students, providing a subsidy of HK$10,000 to each
students from 170 schools through school talks and eligible student and benefiting a total of 75 Year 2
workshops, which have included STEM workshops and students in the 2022/23 cohort. One of the awardees
visits to CLP’s E-Playground. The first “Triathlon” Cup was offered a summer internship in August to learn about
summer camp was organised in July, where around 60 the power industry. The award not only provides training
secondary students got to unlock their creativity and be opportunities to these students in the energy sector, but
inspired to pursue power engineering. it also helps nurture a new generation of talent for Hong
Kong's power engineering industry.
In 2023, the CLP Community Energy Saving Fund (CESF)
allocated HK$0.75 million to the CLP Award for VPET
Career talks, interview skills workshops, caring visits, induction courses and special internships were offered to help young people in custody and those who
have been released to reintegrate into society.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 160

--- Page 161 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Customers Our people Partners Community
Case Study
Enabling Growth and Engagement through Continued
Community Support
As part of its commitment to community
stewardship, CLP Power has rolled out a range
of targeted initiatives to address the needs of
different communities in Hong Kong.
CLP Power allocated HK$6 million from its Community
Energy Saving Fund in 2023 to launch the E-Learning
Assistance Programme. The programme provides new
electronic learning devices, including iPads, internet
mobile WiFi hotspots and data SIM cards, to 1,600
primary, secondary, and tertiary students from low-
income families. The initiative aims to support young
people needing electronic devices for online classes and e-
learning.
Residents of all ages teamed up to beautify the substation in Shek Kip
Mei with colourful messages about local heritage and the importance of
alow-carbon lifestyle.
CLP China launched the 3-year 'Rural Vitalisation
Programme' in 2023. In the first year, CLP China carried
out 7 projects in 5 regions under the themes of ecological,
talent and industrial/ agricultural vitalisation. The projects
have benefitted more than 6,200 people. Also, the 'Knitting
for the Community" programme was launched, bringing
together CLP China volunteer group of employees and
their families to knit over 600 scarves and accessories for
the underprivileged in China.
A Volunteer Appreciation Ceremony was held in November
CLP distributed e-learning devices to 1,600 underprivileged students to 2023 to recognise the volunteering work of employees
help them learn more effectively.
with NGOs and community partners from 2020 to 2022,
a period in which employees collectively delivered close
In addition, CLP launched the Substation B eautification
to 30,000 hours of volunteer service. The Volunteer
Project to connect people with their communities by
Team adjusted its services in response to the pandemic,
decorating substations with murals promoting energy
switching from door-to-door visits to calls to provide
conservation, carbon reduction and green living. The
care for elderly people with early symptoms of dementia;
Substation Beautification Project this year was conducted
and from dine-in hot meals to distributing meal coupons,
in Yau Tsim Mong, Sham Shui Po and Kwun Tong districts.
takeaways and deliveries to the homes of people in need.
Non-profit making art organisations, ethnic minority
families, senior citizens, and young people were engaged
to collaborate in creating beautiful murals together.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 161

--- Page 162 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Customers Our people Partners Community
Safety around CLP’s network work contractors and site management personnel, to keep a
high level of safety awareness at all locations.
Our approach
EMFs arising from power systems are a matter of public health
concern. CLP’s power supply equipment fully complies with
Electromagnetic fields (EMFs) from power systems are a
the guidelines issued by the International Commission on Non-
prominent area of public concern. However, CLP’s EMF levels
Ionizing Radiation Protection. Regular EMF measurements of
remain well below international guidelines.
CLP's power supply equipment are carried out jointly with the
Electrical and Mechanical Services Department of the Hong
GRI reference: 416-1, 416-2
Kong Government. The measured EMF levels continue to be
well below the guideline limits.
While the Group’s HSE Management System Standard sets
out an overarching approach to managing the safety risks in
Regarding customer health and safety, CLP Power has
operations, CLP also takes responsibility for preserving public
Customer Service Centres conveniently located in its supply
health and safety, including the health and safety of those who
areas in Hong Kong that provide assistance on product safety,
work or live in close proximity to power supply lines.
as well as advising on energy-efficient products, energy-
saving tips and account management issues.
CLP operates a transmission and distribution network in Hong
Kong, as well as transmission networks in Shenzhen, China and
in the northeastern part of India. Working near power supply
lines may pose safety hazards. Both CLP’s Hong Kong and
Mainland China operations conduct regular construction site
inspections and provide cable plans and safety talks to road
Maintaining proper Health, Safety and Environment management practices for transmission towers is important to keep the general public safe.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 162

--- Page 163 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Customers Our people Partners Community
Nuclear safety Low- to intermediate-level solid radioactive waste is
appropriately sealed and stored onsite in a dedicated facility
on an interim basis, to ensure protection against unauthorised
Our approach
access. The waste is transferred to a final repository operated
by a service provider, using the shallow burial method
CLP is the minority owner of two nuclear power stations
commonly adopted in the United States, France and the United
in Mainland China, namely Daya Bay Nuclear Power Station
Kingdom. The operation of the offsite repository is under the
and Yangjiang Nuclear Power Station. The power stations
supervision of the national nuclear regulator and is subject to
have adopted defence-in-depth principles to ensure multiple
relevant nuclear safety regulations.
independent layers of safety protection.
Monitoring and follow-up
SASB reference: IF-EU-540a.2
Workers’ exposure to radiation is closely monitored and
managed by plant operators both collectively and at an
Nuclear risk management
individual level as part of operating protocols. Workers are
The safe and steady operation of the two nuclear power
exposed to most radiation during planned refuelling outages,
stations is a top priority. The defence-in-depth principle of
when they need to work at the nuclear generating units,
safety is applied in every area, including design, site selection,
including carrying out inspection and maintenance activities
operation, radiation protection, environmental monitoring,
in radiation-controlled areas. Radiation dosage levels typically
and emergency preparedness. The safety principle of "As Low
reflect the number of planned outages carried out at the units.
As Reasonably Achievable" is also applied.
Training and awareness
The two nuclear power stations have each delivered good
An onsite training school provides professional training on
safety performances over the years due to:
operational procedures for nuclear sites. The training aims
• to enhance nuclear safety by systematically minimising the
The adoption of best international practices, including
chance of human error. There is a once-every-five-y ears
the International Atomic Energy Agency Nuclear Safety
requalification mechanism to ensure operator professionalism
Standards, in their operations;
and competency in plant operation.
•
A well-trained and well-qualified workforce;
• Well-established safety practices and procedures; and Initiatives and progress
•
Comprehensive risk analysis and mitigation.
The International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) and the
Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development
Read more from the Audit & Risk Committee (OECD) developed the International Nuclear and Radiological
Report in the 2023 Annual Report Event Scale (INES) to improve public understanding and
awareness of the nature and significance of safety aspects
Nuclear waste management of incidents, as well as to communicate to the public the safety
Daya Bay Nuclear Power Station (Daya Bay) adheres to significance of nuclear and radiological events in a consistent
national policy and international practices for nuclear waste manner. Any event that happens in a nuclear power station
management. The station stores its spent nuclear fuel onsite in that qualifies for the INES scale is considered as a Licensing
dedicated storage facilities. Operational Event (LOE). Daya Bay continued to operate
smoothly in 2023, with no LOE occurring during the year.
The back-end management of the fuel cycle is performed
onsite for a number of years before the spent fuel is passed To ensure the provision of low-carbon and cost-competitive
on for reprocessing to a service provider licensed by the energy to Hong Kong, Daya Bay will continue to provide an
Chinese Government. The service provider is supervised additional 10% electricity output to Hong Kong from 2024
by the National Nuclear Safety Administration, and its to 2028, in addition to the 70% of its electricity already
environmental impact is monitored by the Ministry of committed to Hong Kong. This arrangement helps avoid
Ecology and Environment. The policy in Mainland China on substantial carbon dioxide emissions in the city while keeping
reprocessing spent nuclear fuel is similar to that of a number the tariff stable.
of European countries.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 163

--- Page 164 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Customers Our people Partners Community
CLP is committed to promoting education about nuclear and Collective radiation dosage for workers
low-carbon energy. It sponsored The City University of Hong
Kong to set up the CLP Power Low Carbon Energy Education The collective radiation dosage for the year was
Centre in 2017. Since then, the centre has been serving as an 1324.3 man-mSv, greater than the 2022 level of 720
important platform for engaging with and educating the public man-mSv, as there was a 30-year planned refuelling
about the benefits of low-carbon energy sources, including outage of a longer duration.
nuclear energy, and how they help address the challenge of
climate change. There are five themed zones to introduce
2023 1324.3
various types of low-carbon energy including wind, solar,
hydro, gas and nuclear through interactive exhibits and tools. 2022 719.8
Guided tours and various low-carbon themed workshops are 2021 641.7
offered to visitors free of charge. In 2023, more than 9,000
2020 676.2
visitors visited the centre, nearly double the number in 2022.
2019 960.0
Visitors included students, teachers, professional groups and
the general public. 0 500 1,000 1,500
man-mSv
GRI reference: 306-3 (2016), 306-1, 306-2, 306-3
Spent nuclear fuel
The average radiation dose rate for workers in 2023 was
less than 0.4 mSv per person per year. By comparison, the The amount of spent nuclear fuel in 2023 was at
background radiation dose rate from the natural environment an expected level given the one planned refuelling
in Hong Kong is 2.4 mSv per person per year. outage, by comparison with two in 2022.
The charts on the right and below show the amounts of spent
nuclear fuel and low- to intermediate-level radioactive nuclear 2023 37.7
waste from Daya Bay in recent years. The amounts of both
2022 75.4
types of waste are related to the number of planned refuelling
2021 33.1
outages in each year.
2020 37.7
In 2023, Daya Bay carried out a 30-year planned outage, and 2019 75.2
the total quantity of spent nuclear fuel generated r eflected
0 20 40 60 80 100
this event.
Tonnes (t)
Solid radioactive nuclear waste
There was a decrease in low- to intermediate -level
nuclear waste in 2023, as compared with 2022,
due to a 30-year planned refuelling outage of a
longer duration.
2023 53.0
2022 58.8
2021 26.0
2020 71.0
2019 89.4
0 20 40 60 80 100
Cubic metres (m3)
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 164

--- Page 165 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Customers Our people Partners Community
Case Study
Low-Carbon Invention Competition sparks students’ creativity for
decarbonisation solutions
Nurturing the younger generation and supporting climate change while introducing participants to the
environmental education have always been part transformative power of STEM in driving sustainable
of CLP’s commitment to the community. development. The overwhelming response to the
competition reflects the LCEEC’s achievement in
Over 1,100 primary and secondary students participated environment education.
in the Low-Carbon Invention Competition organised
by the CLP Power Low Carbon Energy Education
Centre (LCEEC) located at City University of Hong
Kong to harness their creativity for environmentally
friendly inventions using 3D printing technology. The
competition combined elements of creativity, STEM
(Science, Technology, Engineering, Mathematics), and
environmental awareness and encouraged students to
come up with eco-friendly ideas which could be applied in
daily life. Some winning entries featured renewable energy
by harnessing wind and solar power together with energy
storage devices. Other entries aimed to reduce carbon
emissions through greening.
A group picture of winners and guests.
The Low-Carbon Invention Competition aligns perfectly
with the LCEEC's mission to raise awareness of
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 165

--- Page 166 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
ESG Data Table
and GHG
Accounting
Methodology
Economic value generated 167
and distributed
ESG data table 168
GHG accounting methodology 201

--- Page 167 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Economic value generated ESG data table GHG accounting methodology
and distributed
Economic value generated
and distributed
Bearing in mind different stakeholder interests, CLP emphasises value creation over the long term, and does
this in a way that helps serve the communities in which it operates.
GRI reference: 201-1
One way to understand this emphasis is through the value created and distributed by CLP to different stakeholders. In 2023, 90.3%
of the economic value generated by CLP was distributed to stakeholders, including employees, partners, capital providers and the
community at large.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 167

--- Page 168 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Economic value generated ESG data table GHG accounting methodology
and distributed
ESG data table
CLP continually improves by managing, monitoring and
Table of Contents Page
reporting its ESG performance. These tables present a
Financial information 168
quantitative overview of the Group's 2023 financial and
non-financial performance. The disclosures are selected from Climate change 170
the GRI Standards, The Hong Kong Stock Exchange's ESG
Environment 171
Reporting Guide, SASB Standards for Electric Utilities, IFRS S1
General Requirements for Disclosure of Sustainability-related Customers 174
Financial Information and IFRS S2 Climate-related Disclosures, Our people 177
as well as other key performance data.
Partners 193
Detailed discussion of these metrics can be found in Community 195
the corresponding Respecting Nature and Serving our Apraava Energy 196
Stakeholders sections.
The 2023 data shaded in orange has been independently Read the reporting scope
verified by KPMG. The assurance scope of past years' data can
be found in previous sustainability reports.
Download the independent assurance statement
Financial information
Capital investment, operating earnings and revenue
GRI/HKEx/
2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
SASB/IFRS
Total capital investment incurred by IFRS S1-35(c)
15,674 (100%) 17,849 (100%) 15,411 (100%) 13,022 (100%) 12,028 (100%)
asset type (HK$M(%))1,2,3
Transmission, distribution and retail 6,936 (44%) 6,379 (36%) 5,957 (39%) 4,810 (37%) 5,229 (43%)
Coal 2,921 (19%) 2,280 (13%) 2,628 (17%) 3,638 (28%) 2,473 (21%)
Gas 4,336 (28%) 6,713 (38%) 5,639 (37%) 3,445 (26%) 3,146 (26%)
Nuclear 0 (0%) 0 (0%) 0 (0%) 0 (0%) 352 (3%)
Wind 219 (1%) 1,721 (10%)
Hydro 53 (0%) 29 (0%) 842 (6%) 455 (4%) 457 (4%)
Solar 457 (3%) 34 (0%)
Waste-to-energy 37 (0%) 1 (0%) 18 (0%) 7 (0%) 123 (1%)
Others4 715 (5%) 692 (4%) 327 (2%) 667 (5%) 248 (2%)
Total operating earnings by asset
11,606 (100%)6 9,156 (100%)6 10,972 (100%) 12,374 (100%) 12,138 (100%)
type (HK$M(%))1,5
Transmission, distribution and retail 6,127 (53%)6 6,534 (72%)6 6,095 (56%) 5,751 (46%) 5,131 (42%)
Coal 308 (3%)6 -1,478 (-16%)6 763 (7%) 2,871 (23%) 2,503 (21%)
Gas 2,164 (19%)6 1,466 (16%)6 1,312 (12%) 1,510 (12%) 1,735 (14%)
Nuclear 1,888 (16%)6 1,965 (22%)6 1,908 (17%) 1,594 (13%) 1,688 (14%)
Wind 615 (5%)6 428 (5%)6
630 (6%) 567 (5%) 1,011 (8%)
Hydro 101 (1%)6 112 (1%)6
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 168

--- Page 169 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Economic value generated ESG data table GHG accounting methodology
and distributed
GRI/HKEx/
2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
SASB/IFRS
Solar 353 (3%)6 4 (0%)6
Waste-to-energy 8 (0%)6 9 (0%)6 10 (0%) 8 (0%) 5 (0%)
Others4 42 (0%)6 116 (1%)6 254 (2%) 73 (1%) 65 (1%)
Revenue by asset type (HK$M(%))1 87,169 (100%) 100,662 (100%) 83,959 79,590 85,689
Transmission, distribution and retail 40,248 (46%) 39,169 (39%) N/A N/A N/A
Coal 13,800 (16%) 26,188 (26%) N/A N/A N/A
Gas 20,075 (23%) 21,657 (22%) N/A N/A N/A
Nuclear 6,943 (8%) 7,000 (7%) N/A N/A N/A
Wind 1,093 (1%) 1,950 (2%) N/A N/A N/A
Hydro 452 (1%) 507 (1%) N/A N/A N/A
Solar 623 (1%) 983 (1%) N/A N/A N/A
Waste to energy 56 (0%) 58 (0%) N/A N/A N/A
Others4 3,879 (4%) 3,150 (3%) N/A N/A N/A
1 Numbers have been subject to rounding. Any discrepancies between the total shown and the sum of the amounts listed are due to rounding.
2 Capital investment includes: i) capital expenditure in fixed assets, right-of-use assets, investment property and intangible assets; ii) changes in investments and
advances to joint ventures and associates; and iii) acquisitions of assets and/or businesses.
3 On an accrual basis.
4 Others include oil, other businesses outside of power generation, transmission, distribution and retail, as well as corporate or enterprise items.
5 Before unallocated expenses.
6 Operating earnings in 2022 and 2023 are aligned where fair value movements are excluded.
Economic value generated, distributed and retained
GRI/HKEx/
2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
SASB/IFRS
Economic value generated (HK$M) GRI 201-1
Revenue 87,169 100,662 83,959 79,590 85,689
Share of profits of non-wholly
2,320 2,036 1,129 1,608 1,828
owned entities1
Economic value distributed (HK$M)
Fuel costs 20,491 26,603 18,506 15,753 16,712
Other operating costs2 44,010 59,505 39,922 35,774 48,654
Staff expenses3 4,749 4,668 5,107 4,844 4,535
Finance costs4 2,008 1,981 1,774 1,875 2,033
Dividends 7,832 7,832 7,832 7,832 7,782
Taxes5 1,709 1,649 1,720 2,529 2,189
Donations 9 10 15 27 21
Economic value retained (HK$M)6 8,681 450 10,212 12,564 5,591
1 Includes share of results (net of income tax) from joint ventures and associates netted with earnings attributable to other non-controlling interests, which
represented CLP's share of economic value created together with its business partners.
2 Includes impairment provision/reversal and other charges. In particular, amount included impairment of energy retail goodwill of HK$5,868 million and
HK$6,381 million in 2023 and 2019 respectively, loss on sale of subsidiaries of HK$4,312 million in 2022 and litigation settlement of HK$1,110 million in 2021.
3 Another HK$1,673 million (2022: HK$1,509 million) of staff costs incurred were capitalised.
4 Finance costs are netted with finance income and include payments made to perpetual capital securities holders. In addition, finance costs of HK$614 million (2022:
HK$466 million) were capitalised.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 169

--- Page 170 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Economic value generated ESG data table GHG accounting methodology
and distributed
5 Represents current income tax but excludes deferred tax for the year.
6 Represents earnings attributable to shareholders (before depreciation, amortisation and deferred tax) for the year retained.
Climate change
Greenhouse gas emissions
GRI/HKEx/
2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
SASB/IFRS
CLP Group1
Total COe emissions – on an equity GRI 305-1,
2 52,988 60,223 65,017 62,138 71,720
basis (kt)2,3 305-2, 305-3/
HKEx A1.2/
Scope 1 (kt)4 38,163 44,141 47,690 45,105 50,047
SASB IF-
Scope 2 (kt) 229 220 236 244 250 EU-110a.1,
IF-EU-110a.2/
Scope 3 (kt) 14,597 15,861 17,091 16,790 21,424 IFRS S2-29(a)
Category 1: Purchased goods
1,056 912 901 1,210 1,093
and services
Category 2: Capital goods 816 902 1,488 685 1,347
Category 3: Fuel- and energy- SASB IF-
11,053 12,046 12,733 12,690 16,671
related activities EU-110a.2
Category 5: Waste generated
46 56 80 63 101
in operations
Category 6: Business travel 4 2 1 1 8
Category 7: Employee commuting 4 5 4 2 4
Category 11: Use of sold products 1,617 1,939 1,884 2,138 2,200
CLP Group's generation and energy storage portfolio3,4,5
CO – on an equity basis (kt)6 38,051 44,019 47,574 44,987 N/A GRI 305-1,
2
305-2/
COe – on an equity basis (kt)6 38,241 44,235 47,813 N/A N/A HKEx A1.2
2
CO – on an equity plus long-
2
term capacity and energy purchase 42,216 48,074 51,674 48,621 N/A
basis (kt)7
COe – on an equity plus long-
2
term capacity and energy purchase 42,439 48,323 51,941 N/A N/A
basis (kt)7
CO – on an operational control
2 30,563 44,338 46,842 43,808 50,412
basis (kt)6,8
COe – on an operational control
2 30,732 44,571 47,090 44,023 50,676
basis (kt)6,8
1 Refers to a range of businesses, including generation and energy storage portfolio, transmission and distribution, retail and others.
2 Numbers have been subject to rounding. Any discrepancies between the total shown and the sum of the amounts listed are due to rounding.
3 Paguthan Power Station, the power purchase agreements of which expired in December 2018, was not included in the 2019-2023 numbers.
4 In accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, WE Station, which makes use of landfill gas from waste for power generation, is not included in CLP’s Scope 1 CO
2
emissions and is reported separately in the Asset Performance Statistics. Its non-CO GHG emissions (i.e. CH and NO) are included in CLP’s Scope 1 COe emissions.
2 4 2 2
5 Starting from 2020, the portfolio includes energy storage assets and generation assets. Energy storage assets include pumped storage and battery storage. In
previous years, the portfolio included generation assets only.
6 Numbers include Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions.
7 Numbers include Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 Category 3 emissions (direct emissions from generation of purchased electricity that is sold to CLP’s customers).
8 Apraava Energy ceased to be a subsidiary and is now accounted for as a joint venture. Apraava Energy is excluded in the figures for 2023, but included in figures for
2022 and prior years. Moreover, in November 2022, CLP sold its 70% interest in the coal-fired Fanchanggang Power Station, which has been excluded from CLP’s
reporting scope since then.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 170

--- Page 171 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Economic value generated ESG data table GHG accounting methodology
and distributed
CLP's Climate Vision 2050
GRI/HKEx/
2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
SASB/IFRS
CLP Group – GHG emissions intensity of generation and energy storage portfolio1,2,3
On an equity plus long-term capacity GRI 305-4/
and energy purchase basis 0.54 0.55 0.57 0.57 0.63 HKEx A1.2/
(kg COe/kWh)4 IFRS S2-33(a)
2
On an equity basis (kg COe/kWh)5 0.62 0.63 0.65 0.66 0.71
2
1 Starting from 2020, the portfolio includes energy storage assets and generation assets. Energy storage assets include pumped storage and battery storage. In
previous years, the portfolio included generation assets only.
2 Paguthan Power Station, the power purchase agreements of which expired in December 2018, was not included in the 2019-2023 numbers.
3 In accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, WE Station, which makes use of landfill gas from waste for power generation, is not included in CLP’s Scope 1 CO
2
emissions and is reported separately in the Asset Performance Statistics. Its non-CO GHG emissions (i.e. CH and NO) are included in CLP’s Scope 1 COe emissions.
2 4 2 2
4 Numbers include Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 Category 3 emissions (direct emissions from generation of purchased electricity that is sold to CLP’s customers).
5 Numbers include Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions.
CLP Power Hong Kong Limited – GHG emissions intensity of electricity sold
GRI/HKEx/
2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
SASB/IFRS
CLP Power Hong Kong – GHG emissions intensity of electricity sold1,2
COe emissions intensity of electricity
2
sold by CLP Power Hong Kong 0.39 0.39 0.39 0.37 0.50
(kg COe/kWh)
2
CO emissions intensity of electricity
2
sold by CLP Power Hong Kong 0.39 0.39 0.39 0.37 0.49
(kg CO/kWh)
2
1 In accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, WE Station, which makes use of landfill gas from waste for power generation, is not included in CLP’s Scope 1 CO
2
emissions and is reported separately in the Asset Performance Statistics. Its non-CO GHG emissions (i.e. CH and NO) are included in CLP’s Scope 1 COe emissions.
2 4 2 2
2 "Electricity sold" is the total electricity energy sold to CLP Power Hong Kong Limited's customers before the adjustment of Renewable Energy Certificates.
The 2023 data shaded in orange has been independently verified by KPMG. The assurance scope of past years' data can be found
in previous sustainability reports.
Environment
Environmental compliance
GRI/HKEx/
2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
SASB/IFRS
Environmental regulatory non- GRI 2-27
compliances resulting in fines or 0 0 0 0 0
prosecutions (number)1,2
Environmental licence limit
exceedances & other non- 5 6 5 4 10
compliances (number)1,2
1 Apraava Energy ceased to be a subsidiary and is now accounted for as a joint venture. Apraava Energy is excluded in the figures for 2023, but included in figures for
2022 and prior years. Moreover, in November 2022, CLP sold its 70% interest in the coal-fired Fanchanggang Power Station, which has been excluded from CLP’s
reporting scope since then.
2 Numbers include operating assets where CLP has operational control during the calendar year. Paguthan Power Station, the power purchase agreements of which
expired in December 2018, was not included in the 2019-2023 numbers.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 171

--- Page 172 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Economic value generated ESG data table GHG accounting methodology
and distributed
Air pollutants
GRI/HKEx/
2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
SASB/IFRS
Nitrogen oxides (NO) (kt)1,2 32.3 43.5 45.7 43.2 47.0 GRI 305-7/
x
HKEx A1.1/
Sulphur dioxide (SO) (kt)1,2 40.6 48.9 52.7 48.0 44.7
2 SASB IF-
Particulates (kt)1,2 6.7 6.8 7.6 6.9 7.7 EU-120a.1
Sulphur hexafluoride (SF) (kt)1,2 0.004 0.003 0.004 0.003 N/A
6
SASB IF-
Mercury (t)1,2 0.22 0.52 0.31 N/A N/A
EU-120a.1
1 Apraava Energy ceased to be a subsidiary and is now accounted for as a joint venture. Apraava Energy is excluded in the figures for 2023, but included in figures for
2022 and prior years. Moreover, in November 2022, CLP sold its 70% interest in the coal-fired Fanchanggang Power Station, which has been excluded from CLP’s
reporting scope since then.
2 Numbers include operating assets where CLP has operational control during the calendar year. Paguthan Power Station, the power purchase agreements of which
expired in December 2018, was not included in the 2019-2023 numbers.
Waste
GRI/HKEx/
2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
SASB/IFRS
Hazardous solid waste (t)1,2,3
Produced 3,617 869 1,524 1,503 862 GRI 306-3/
HKEx A1.3
Recycled 331 493 520 523 201
Hazardous liquid waste (kl)1,2,3
Produced 1,935 1,103 1,017 1,091 1,578
Recycled 684 797 947 1,069 1,536
Non-hazardous solid waste (t)1,2,3
Produced 12,326 12,702 24,481 17,901 13,344 GRI 306-3/
HKEx A1.4
Recycled 6,744 7,917 4,214 4,458 4,986
Non-hazardous liquid waste (kl)1,2,3
Produced 0 23 65 3 59
Recycled 0 23 65 3 57
By-products1,2
Ash produced (kt) 1,045 3,0664 3,403 2,624 3,032 SASB IF-
EU-150a.1
Ash recycled / sold (kt) 328 2,365 2,501 1,793 3,667
Gypsum produced (kt) 52 286 367 334 441
Gypsum recycled / sold (kt) 61 280 365 335 438
1 Apraava Energy ceased to be a subsidiary and is now accounted for as a joint venture. Apraava Energy is excluded in the figures for 2023, but included in figures for
2022 and prior years. Moreover, in November 2022, CLP sold its 70% interest in the coal-fired Fanchanggang Power Station, which has been excluded from CLP’s
reporting scope since then.
2 Numbers include operating assets where CLP has operational control during the calendar year. Paguthan Power Station, the power purchase agreements of which
expired in December 2018, was not included in the 2019-2023 numbers.
3 Waste categorised in accordance with local regulations.
4 Restated as per updated data for Mount piper in Australia.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 172

--- Page 173 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Economic value generated ESG data table GHG accounting methodology
and distributed
Water
GRI/HKEx/
2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
SASB/IFRS
Total water withdrawal (Mm3)1,2,3 4,249.0 5,339.3 5,243.7 5,466.0 5,475.4 GRI 2.4, 303-3/
HKEx A2.2/
For cooling purpose
SASB IF-
Water withdrawal from EU-140a.1
24.1 42.7 43.3 33.6 47.6
freshwater resources
Water withdrawal from marine
4,217.4 5,287.0 5,190.3 5,421.7 5,415.4
water resources
For non-cooling purposes
Water withdrawal from
2.0 4.6 5.3 5.7 5.8
freshwater resources
Water withdrawal from
5.4 5.0 4.8 4.9 6.7
municipal sources
Total freshwater withdrawal from SASB IF-
0.01 N/A N/A N/A N/A
water stressed areas EU-140a.1
Total water discharge (Mm3)1,2,3 4,240.3 5,310.9 5,205.4 5,438.6 5,433.2 GRI 2.4, 303-4
From cooling process
Treated wastewater to
0 0 0 0 0
freshwater bodies
Water discharge to marine
4,217.4 5,287.0 5,190.3 5,421.7 5,415.4
water bodies
Wastewater to other destinations 0 0 0 0 0
From non-cooling processes
Treated wastewater to
19.7 21.0 11.9 13.7 14.4
freshwater bodies
Treated wastewater to marine
1.7 1.6 1.3 1.5 1.7
water bodies
Wastewater to other destinations 1.5 1.3 1.9 1.6 1.7
Wastewater to sewerage 0.03 0.04 0.03 0.03 0.03
GRI 303-5/
Total freshwater consumption of CLP
12.0 31.3 41.5 N/A N/A SASB IF-
Group's power generation (Mm3)1
EU-140a.1
Total freshwater consumption under SASB IF-
0.01 16.5 17.2 N/A N/A
water stressed areas (Mm3)1 EU-140a.1
Freshwater intensity
Freshwater intensity of CLP Group's
0.28 0.52 0.66 0.51 0.74
power generation (m3/MWh)1,2
Freshwater reused/recycled
Freshwater reused/recycled
786 756 838 736 686
volume (Mm3)1,2
1 Apraava Energy ceased to be a subsidiary and is now accounted for as a joint venture. Apraava Energy is excluded in the figures for 2023, but included in figures for
2022 and prior years. Moreover, in November 2022, CLP sold its 70% interest in the coal-fired Fanchanggang Power Station, which has been excluded from CLP’s
reporting scope since then.
2 Numbers include operating assets where CLP has operational control during the calendar year. Paguthan Power Station, the power purchase agreements of which
expired in December 2018, was not included in the 2019-2023 numbers.
3 Numbers have been subject to rounding. Any discrepancies between the total shown and the sum of the amounts listed are due to rounding.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 173

--- Page 174 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Economic value generated ESG data table GHG accounting methodology
and distributed
The 2023 data shaded in orange has been independently verified by KPMG. The assurance scope of past years' data can be found
in previous sustainability reports.
Customers
Customer portfolio and electricity delivered- CLP Power Hong Kong Limited
GRI/HKEx/
2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
SASB/IFRS
Total Hong Kong customers (number) 2,789,644 2,752,071 2,711,421 2,671,836 2,636,408 GRI EU3/
SASB IF-
Residential 2,439,557 2,407,225 2,369,217 2,333,901 2,301,200
EU-000.A
Commercial 214,616 212,251 210,821 208,150 206,792
Infrastructure and Public Services 118,548 115,404 113,956 112,245 110,841
Manufacturing 16,923 17,191 17,427 17,540 17,575
Total electricity delivered (GWh) 35,392 34,824 35,355 33,963 34,284 GRI EU3/
SASB IF-
Residential 9,929 10,113 10,525 10,298 9,451
EU-000.B
Commercial 13,673 13,233 13,423 12,878 13,584
Infrastructure and Public Services 10,196 9,863 9,742 9,171 9,586
Manufacturing 1,594 1,615 1,665 1,616 1,663
Customer portfolio- EnergyAustralia
GRI/HKEx/
2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
SASB/IFRS
Total Australian customers (number) 2,441,460 2,462,537 2,442,683 2,449,401 2,480,781 GRI EU3
Commercial and Industrial 3,870 8,7401 7,208 8,962 12,599
Mass market 2,437,590 2,453,797 2,435,475 2,440,439 2,468,182
1 The number was restated due to classification updates.
Availabilty and reliability- CLP Power Hong Kong Limited
GRI/HKEx/
2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
SASB/IFRS
System Average Interruption SASB IF-
0.27 0.27 0.21 0.19 0.17
Frequency Index [SAIFI]1 EU-550a.2
System Average Interruption
0.29 0.30 0.23 0.39 0.42
Duration Index [SAIDI] (hours)1
Unplanned Customer Minutes Lost
5.98 5.69 0.99 9.772 10.133
[CML] (minutes)1
1 The numbers are derived by calculating the average of data from the most recent three years. For example, the figures under year 2023 are the 3-year averages
of data from 2021 to 2023.
2 The 2018-2020 average would have been about 0.9 minutes without the severe impact of Mangkhut in September 2018.
3 The 2017-2019 average would have been about 1.3 minutes without the severe impact of Mangkhut in September 2018.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 174

--- Page 175 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Economic value generated ESG data table GHG accounting methodology
and distributed
Access to electricity- CLP Power Hong Kong Limited
GRI/HKEx/
2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
SASB/IFRS
Total disconnections for Hong Kong
6,520 4,859 4,943 4,999 4,643
retail businesses (number)1,2,3
0 - 2 days 115 144 105 98 4,333
3 - 7 days 721 739 796 506 170
8 - 31 days 2,304 1,817 2,251 2,274 101
≥ 32 days 3,380 2,159 1,791 2,121 39
1 It refers to the disconnection orders completed due to heavily overdue payment.
2 It refers to the number of days required from the issuance of the disconnection orders to the completion of the disconnection orders.
3 It includes residential and commercial & industrial businesses.
Fuel use
GRI/HKEx/
2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
SASB/IFRS
Coal consumed (for power GRI 302-1/
250,177 394,274 426,190 403,379 485,453
generation) (TJ)1,2,3 HKEx A2.1
Gas consumed (for power
146,370 151,327 142,304 134,776 107,183
generation) (TJ)1,2,3
Oil consumed (for power
2,854 2,936 2,717 2,243 2,620
generation) (TJ)1,2,3
1 Apraava Energy ceased to be a subsidiary and is now accounted for as a joint venture. Apraava Energy is excluded in the figures for 2023, but included in figures for
2022 and prior years. Moreover, in November 2022, CLP sold its 70% interest in the coal-fired Fanchanggang Power Station, which has been excluded from CLP’s
reporting scope since then.
2 Numbers have been subject to rounding.
3 Numbers include operating assets where CLP has operational control during the calendar year. Paguthan Power Station, the power purchase agreements of which
expired in December 2018, was not included in the 2019-2023 numbers.
Generation and energy storage capacity
GRI/HKEx/
2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
SASB/IFRS
On an equity basis
Total generation and energy storage GRI EU 1
18,123 (100%) 17,970 (100%) 20,018 (100%) 19,691 (100%) 19,238 (100%)
capacity by asset type (MW(%))1,2
Coal 8,486 (46.8%) 8,486 (47.2%) 10,795 (53.9%) 10,765 (54.7%) 10,765 (56.0%)
Gas 4,938 (27.2%) 4,934 (27.5%) 4,666 (23.3%) 4,600 (23.4%) 4,194 (21.8%)
Nuclear 1,600 (8.8%) 1,600 (8.9%) 1,600 (8.0%) 1,600 (8.1%) 1,600 (8.3%)
Wind3 1,827 (10.1%) 1,680 (9.3%) 1,747 (8.7%) 1,521 (7.7%) 1,521 (7.9%)
Hydro3 489 (2.7%) 489 (2.7%) 489 (2.4%) 489 (2.5%) 489 (2.5%)
Solar3 548 (3.0%) 554 (3.1%) 499 (2.5%) 499 (2.5%) 451 (2.3%)
Waste-to-energy3 7 (0.0%) 7 (0.0%) 7 (0.0%) 7 (0.0%) 7 (0.0%)
Energy Storage 18 (0.1%) 10 (0.1%) 5 (0.0%) 0 (0.0%) N/A
Others 210 (1.2%) 210 (1.2%) 210 (1.0%) 210 (1.1%) 210 (1.1%)
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 175

--- Page 176 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Economic value generated ESG data table GHG accounting methodology
and distributed
GRI/HKEx/
2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
SASB/IFRS
On an equity plus long-term capacity and energy purchase basis
Total generation and energy storage
23,291 (100%) 23,068 (100%) 25,108 (100%) 24,752 (100%) 24,015 (100%)
capacity by asset type (MW(%))1,2
Coal 9,719 (41.7%) 9,719 (42.1%) 12,027 (47.9%) 11,997 (48.5%) 11,997 (50.0%)
Gas 6,093 (26.2%) 6,089 (26.4%) 5,813 (23.2%) 5,717 (23.1%) 5,139 (21.4%)
Nuclear 2,685 (11.5%) 2,685 (11.6%) 2,685 (10.7%) 2,685 (10.8%) 2,685 (11.2%)
Wind4 2,391 (10.3%) 2,264 (9.8%) 2,331 (9.3%) 2,105 (8.5%) 2,049 (8.5%)
Hydro4 489 (2.1%) 489 (2.1%) 489 (1.9%) 489 (2.0%) 489 (2.0%)
Solar4 842 (3.6%) 848 (3.7%) 793 (3.2%) 793 (3.2%) 745 (3.1%)
Waste-to-energy4 10 (0.0%) 10 (0.0%) 10 (0.0%) 10 (0.0%) 10 (0.0%)
Energy Storage 763 (3.3%) 665 (2.9%) 660 (2.6%) 655 (2.6%) N/A
Others 300 (1.3%) 300 (1.3%) 300 (1.2%) 300 (1.2%) 900 (3.7%)
1 Numbers have been subject to rounding. Any discrepancies between the total shown and the sum of the amounts listed are due to rounding.
2 Starting from 2020, a new "Energy Storage” asset category is added, under which pumped storage and battery storage are included. In previous years, assets under
the “Others” category included oil-fired generation assets and pumped storage.
3 Renewables include wind, hydro, solar and waste-to-energy. The total capacity of renewables on an equity basis is 2,871 MW (15.8%) in 2023.
4 Renewables include wind, hydro, solar and waste-to-energy. The total capacity of renewables on an equity plus long-term capacity and energy purchase basis is
3,732 MW (16.0%) in 2023.
Energy sent out
GRI/HKEx/
2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
SASB/IFRS
On an equity basis
Total energy sent out by asset GRI EU 2/
62,052 (100%) 69,726 (100%) 73,113 (100%) 68,699 (100%) 70,949 (100%)
type (GWh(%))1,2,3 HKEX A2.1/
SASB IF-
Coal 30,364 (48.9%) 37,031 (53.1%) 42,002 (57.4%) 39,438 (57.4%) 44,596 (62.9%)
EU-000.D/
Gas 13,817 (22.3%) 14,435 (20.7%) 13,233 (18.1%) 12,390 (18.0%) 9,979 (14.1%)
Nuclear 12,128 (19.5%) 12,346 (17.7%) 12,302 (16.8%) 11,192 (16.3%) 10,888 (15.3%)
Wind4 3,164 (5.1%) 3,146 (4.5%) 2,959 (4.0%) 2,886 (4.2%) 2,924 (4.1%)
Hydro4 1,626 (2.6%) 1,835 (2.6%) 1,668 (2.3%) 1,879 (2.7%) 1,758 (2.5%)
Solar4 920 (1.5%) 901 (1.3%) 922 (1.3%) 898 (1.3%) 805 (1.1%)
Waste-to-energy4 32 (0.1%) 29 (0.0%) 27 (0.0%) 15 (0.0%) 0 (0.0%)
Energy Storage 0 (0.0%) 0 (0.0%) 0 (0.0%) 0 (0.0%) N/A
Others 0 (0.0%) 1 (0.0%) 0 (0.0%) 1 (0.0%) 0 (0.0%)
On an equity plus long-term capacity and energy purchase basis
Total energy sent out by asset
79,512 (100%) 87,360 (100%) 91,183 (100%) 85,949 (100%) 88,573 (100%)
type (GWh(%))1,2,3
Coal 32,418 (40.8%) 39,027 (44.7%) 43,995 (48.2%) 41,118 (47.8%) 48,512 (54.8%)
Gas 19,203 (24.2%) 19,507 (22.3%) 18,461 (20.2%) 17,157 (20.0%) 13,073 (14.8%)
Nuclear 20,098 (25.3%) 20,836 (23.9%) 20,962 (23.0%) 19,923 (23.2%) 19,400 (21.9%)
Wind5 4,688 (5.9%) 4,709 (5.4%) 4,611 (5.1%) 4,445 (5.2%) 4,474 (5.0%)
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 176

--- Page 177 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Economic value generated ESG data table GHG accounting methodology
and distributed
GRI/HKEx/
2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
SASB/IFRS
Hydro5 1,626 (2.0%) 1,835 (2.1%) 1,668 (1.8%) 1,879 (2.2%) 1,758 (2.0%)
Solar5 1,480 (1.9%) 1,472 (1.7%) 1,524 (1.7%) 1,522 (1.8%) 1,467 (1.7%)
Waste-to-energy5 45 (0.1%) 42 (0.0%) 38 (0.0%) 22 (0.0%) 0 (0.0%)
Energy Storage -46(-0.1%) -69 (-0.1%) -75 (-0.1%) -118 (-0.1%) N/A
Others 1 (0.0%) 2 (0.0%) 1 (0.0%) 1 (0.0%) -109 (-0.1%)
On an operational control basis
Total energy sent out (GWh)3,6 43,073 60,475 62,967 58,918 N/A
1 Numbers have been subject to rounding. Any discrepancies between the total shown and the sum of the amounts listed are due to rounding.
2 Starting from 2020, a new "Energy Storage” asset category has been added, under which pumped storage and battery storage are included. In previous years, assets
under the “Others” category included oil-fired generation assets and pumped storage.
3 Paguthan Power Station, the power purchase agreements of which expired in December 2018, was not included in the 2019-2023 number.
4 Renewables include wind, hydro, solar and waste-to-energy. The total sent out of renewables on an equity basis is 5,743 GWh (9.3%) in 2023.
5 Renewables include wind, hydro, solar and waste-to-energy. The total sent out of renewables on an equity plus long-term capacity and energy purchase basis is
7,840 GWh (9.9%) in 2023.
6 Apraava Energy ceased to be a subsidiary and is now accounted for as a joint venture. Apraava Energy is excluded in the figures for 2023, but included in figures for
2022 and prior years. Moreover, in November 2022, CLP sold its 70% interest in the coal-fired Fanchanggang Power Station, which has been excluded from CLP’s
reporting scope since then.
Customer satisfaction – CLP Power Hong Kong Limited
GRI/HKEx/
2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
SASB/IFRS
Customer satisfaction score
CLP 74 72 73 74 72
All public utilities in the energy sector 74 73 74 74 73
Public service organisations 74 73 73 74 73
Customer satisfaction – EnergyAustralia
GRI/HKEx/
2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
SASB/IFRS
Customer service
Calls handled by
1,537,970
EnergyAustralia (number) 1,418,676 1,440,277 1,696,233 1,856,845
Complaints received by
EnergyAustralia (number) 16,594 13,259 14,643 17,049 20,937
The 2023 data shaded in orange has been independently verified by KPMG. The assurance scope of past years' data can be found
in previous sustainability reports.
Our people
Employee headcount and type
GRI/HKEx/
2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
SASB/IFRS
Group total1
Total employee headcount (number) 8,041 8,318 8,116 8,060 7,960
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 177

--- Page 178 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Economic value generated ESG data table GHG accounting methodology
and distributed
GRI/HKEx/
2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
SASB/IFRS
Full-time (number) 7,882 8,154 7,930 7,865 7,754
Part-time (number) 159 164 186 195 206
Permanent (average %) 85.4 85.7 87.0 87.6 87.8
Fixed-term contract (average %) 14.6 14.3 13.0 12.4 12.2
Hong Kong
Total employee headcount (number) 5,163 4,954 4,771 4,689 4,604 GRI 2-7/
HKEx B1.1
Full-time (number) 5,158 4,948 4,770 4,688 4,603
Part-time (number) 5 6 1 1 1
Permanent (average %) 83.0 81.4 83.5 85.1 85.4
Fixed-term contract (average %) 17.0 18.6 16.5 14.9 14.6
Mainland China
Total employee headcount (number) 702 663 627 609 607
Full-time (number) 702 663 627 609 607
Part-time (number) 0 0 0 0 0
Permanent (average %) 70.1 75.2 75.6 75.3 71.6
Fixed-term contract (average %) 29.9 24.8 24.4 24.7 28.4
Australia
Total employee headcount (number) 2,176 2,251 2,281 2,320 2,280
Full-time (number) 2,022 2,093 2,096 2,126 2,075
Part-time (number) 154 158 185 194 205
Permanent (average %) 95.9 95.6 95.1 94.0 94.5
Fixed-term contract (average %) 4.1 4.4 4.9 6.0 5.5
India1
Total employee headcount (number) N/A 450 437 442 469
Full-time (number) N/A 450 437 442 469
Part-time (number) N/A 0 0 0 0
Permanent (average %) N/A 96.3 97.4 98.4 98.8
Fixed-term contract (average %) N/A 3.7 2.6 1.6 1.2
1 Apraava Energy ceased to be a subsidiary and is now accounted for as a joint venture. Apraava Energy is excluded in the figures for 2023, but included in fi gures
for 2022 and prior years.
Contractor FTE and type
GRI/HKEx/
2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
SASB/IFRS
Group total (full-time equivalent)1,2
Total contractor 8,081.6 10,519.4 9,911.3 9,707.7 11,123.9
Labour supply3 1,066.6 1,157.2 1,329.9 1,423.9 1,573.0
Service contractor4 7,014.9 9,362.2 8,581.5 8,283.8 9,550.9
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 178

--- Page 179 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Economic value generated ESG data table GHG accounting methodology
and distributed
GRI/HKEx/
2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
SASB/IFRS
Hong Kong (full-time equivalent)2 GRI 2-8
Total contractor 5,784.3 5,434.0 5,202.8 4,949.9 6,372.6
Labour supply3 904.1 970.2 1,153.5 1,261.8 1,309.0
Service contractor4 4,880.1 4,463.9 4,049.3 3,688.1 5,063.6
Mainland China (full-
time equivalent)2
Total contractor 558.8 331.2 576.0 361.2 363.2
Labour supply3 24.0 24.0 23.5 13.8 13.0
Service contractor4 534.8 307.2 552.5 347.4 350.2
Australia (full-time equivalent)2
Total contractor 1,738.5 1,301.5 1,368.0 1,926.5 1,856.2
Labour supply3 138.5 107.5 101.1 83.1 172.5
Service contractor4 1,600.0 1,194.0 1,266.9 1,843.4 1,683.7
India (full-time equivalent)1,2
Total contractor N/A 3,452.6 2,764.6 2,470.1 2,531.9
Labour supply3 N/A 55.5 51.8 65.2 78.5
Service contractor4 N/A 3,397.1 2,712.8 2,404.9 2,453.4
1 Apraava Energy ceased to be a subsidiary and is now accounted for as a joint venture. Apraava Energy is excluded in the figures for 2023, but included in fi gures
for 2022 and prior years.
2 Numbers have been subject to rounding. Any discrepancies between the total shown and the sum of the amounts listed are due to rounding.
3 Labour supply refers to manpower supplied by contractor companies under labour supply agreements. Reporting is based on quarterly averages.
4 Estimated service contractor full-time equivalent (FTE) is calculated based on the number of man-hours incurred and market-specific average working hours.
Total staff turnover rate
GRI/HKEx/
2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
SASB/IFRS
Hong Kong (%) 10.8 11.7 N/A N/A N/A GRI 401-1/
HKEx B1.2
By age group
Below 30 10.9 12.5 N/A N/A N/A
30-39 12.0 10.6 N/A N/A N/A
40-49 7.8 8.7 N/A N/A N/A
50 and above 11.9 14.5 N/A N/A N/A
By gender
Male 10.1 11.3 N/A N/A N/A
Female 13.3 13.2 N/A N/A N/A
Mainland China (%) 7.0 5.4 N/A N/A N/A
By age group
Below 30 6.3 9.5 N/A N/A N/A
30-39 6.3 4.3 N/A N/A N/A
40-49 4.5 0.5 N/A N/A N/A
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 179

--- Page 180 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Economic value generated ESG data table GHG accounting methodology
and distributed
GRI/HKEx/
2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
SASB/IFRS
50 and above 11.8 10.7 N/A N/A N/A
By gender
Male 7.6 5.0 N/A N/A N/A
Female 4.1 7.1 N/A N/A N/A
Australia (%) 19.1 24.8 N/A N/A N/A
By age group
Below 30 31.6 24.8 N/A N/A N/A
30-39 20.2 25.9 N/A N/A N/A
40-49 18.3 26.1 N/A N/A N/A
50 and above 13.0 21.3 N/A N/A N/A
By gender
Male 18.1 23.1 N/A N/A N/A
Female 20.5 27.1 N/A N/A N/A
India (%)1 N/A 12.9 N/A N/A N/A
By age group
Below 30 N/A 37.5 N/A N/A N/A
30-39 N/A 12.0 N/A N/A N/A
40-49 N/A 13.0 N/A N/A N/A
50 and above N/A 6.2 N/A N/A N/A
By gender
Male N/A 12.8 N/A N/A N/A
Female N/A 13.7 N/A N/A N/A
1 Apraava Energy ceased to be a subsidiary and is now accounted for as a joint venture. Apraava Energy is excluded in the figures for 2023, but included in fi gures
for 2022 and prior years.
Voluntary staff turnover rate
GRI/HKEx/
2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
SASB/IFRS
Hong Kong (%)1,2 5.4 6.6 4.6 3.1 2.4 GRI 401-1/
HKEx B1.2
By age group
Below 30 8.2 8.1 7.4 6.3 4.4
30-39 8.9 9.1 5.6 4.3 4.9
40-49 5.4 7.2 5.2 2.6 1.9
50 and above 1.7 4.1 3.0 1.8 1.1
By gender
Male 4.5 5.7 4.4 2.5 1.8
Female 8.4 9.8 5.4 5.4 4.9
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 180

--- Page 181 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Economic value generated ESG data table GHG accounting methodology
and distributed
GRI/HKEx/
2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
SASB/IFRS
Mainland China (%)1,2 2.6 2.3 2.3 1.3 2.0
By age group
Below 30 6.3 8.3 6.7 1.4 8.4
30-39 5.0 3.4 1.9 2.9 1.9
40-49 0.0 0.0 2.5 0.5 0.5
50 and above 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0
By gender
Male 2.7 2.4 2.1 1.4 2.4
Female 2.5 1.8 2.9 0.9 0.0
Australia (%)1,2 15.2 18.8 16.1 7.7 12.9
By age group
Below 30 27.7 21.4 25.5 13.6 19.3
30-39 17.6 22.0 19.0 7.4 14.2
40-49 13.1 17.9 11.2 6.2 11.5
50 and above 9.8 13.0 13.1 7.1 8.3
By gender
Male 14.2 17.6 16.4 7.1 12.6
Female 16.8 20.5 15.7 8.5 13.4
India (%)1,2,3 N/A 10.6 6.9 4.7 6.6
By age group
Below 30 N/A 29.5 12.5 5.6 7.4
30-39 N/A 10.6 7.5 5.7 9.3
40-49 N/A 10.4 4.8 4.7 2.9
50 and above N/A 3.4 5.1 0.0 0.0
By gender
Male N/A 10.4 6.6 4.3 6.4
Female N/A 12.0 9.4 7.4 7.5
1 Voluntary staff turnover refers to employees leaving the organisation voluntarily and does not include dismissal, retirement, company-initiated termination or end
of contract.
2 Includes permanent employees only, except for Mainland China where both permanent and fixed-term contract employees are included due to local
employment legislation.
3 Apraava Energy ceased to be a subsidiary and is now accounted for as a joint venture. Apraava Energy is excluded in the figures for 2023, but included in fi gures
for 2022 and prior years.
New hire
GRI/HKEx/
2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
SASB/IFRS
Group total (number)1 1,168 1,415 1,029 711 857 GRI 401-1
By age group
Below 30 461 667 342 237 309
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 181

--- Page 182 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Economic value generated ESG data table GHG accounting methodology
and distributed
GRI/HKEx/
2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
SASB/IFRS
30-39 410 457 402 241 300
40-49 202 197 204 145 158
50 and above 95 94 81 88 90
By gender
Male 794 930 686 515 552
Female 374 485 343 196 305
Hong Kong (number) 747 731 524 408 348
By age group
Below 30 337 308 208 172 157
30-39 256 265 187 125 121
40-49 117 109 93 69 48
50 and above 37 49 36 42 22
By gender
Male 516 504 368 308 239
Female 231 227 156 100 109
Mainland China (number) 75 71 45 29 43
By age group
Below 30 31 27 24 10 16
30-39 31 35 16 10 25
40-49 11 9 4 8 2
50 and above 2 0 1 1 0
By gender
Male 62 50 37 25 36
Female 13 21 8 4 7
Australia (number) 346 543 433 255 423
By age group
Below 30 93 298 106 53 116
30-39 123 126 182 93 138
40-49 74 76 103 67 104
50 and above 56 43 42 42 65
By gender
Male 216 323 260 166 242
Female 130 220 173 89 181
India (number)1 N/A 70 27 19 43
By age group
Below 30 N/A 34 4 2 20
30-39 N/A 31 17 13 16
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 182

--- Page 183 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Economic value generated ESG data table GHG accounting methodology
and distributed
GRI/HKEx/
2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
SASB/IFRS
40-49 N/A 3 4 1 4
50 and above N/A 2 2 3 3
By gender
Male N/A 53 21 16 35
Female N/A 17 6 3 8
1 Apraava Energy ceased to be a subsidiary and is now accounted for as a joint venture. Apraava Energy is excluded in the figures for 2023, but included in fi gures
for 2022 and prior years.
Employees eligible to retire within the next five years
GRI/HKEx/
2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
SASB/IFRS
Group total (%)1,2 14.3 14.1 14.6 14.5 13.9 GRI EU15
Hong Kong (%)2 17.3 18.8 20.1 20.4 19.5
Mainland China (%)2 15.9 15.7 15.1 13.4 14.5
Australia (%)2 7.8 6.7 6.6 5.7 5.4
India (%)1,2 N/A 5.5 5.0 5.1 4.8
1 Apraava Energy ceased to be a subsidiary and is now accounted for as a joint venture. Apraava Energy is excluded in the figures for 2023, but included in fi gures
for 2022 and prior years.
2 The percentages given refer to permanent employees within each region, who are eligible to retire within the next five years.
Technical trainees intake
GRI/HKEx/
2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
SASB/IFRS
Group total (number)1 106 132 89 79 75
Male 84 100 71 68 64
Female 22 32 18 11 11
Hong Kong (number) 95 94 66 66 61
Male 76 79 52 58 51
Female 19 15 14 8 10
Mainland China (number) 0 3 0 0 4
Male 0 2 0 0 4
Female 0 1 0 0 0
Australia (number) 11 18 17 13 10
Male 8 12 16 10 9
Female 3 6 1 3 1
India (number)1 N/A 17 6 0 0
Male N/A 7 3 0 0
Female N/A 10 3 0 0
1 Apraava Energy ceased to be a subsidiary and is now accounted for as a joint venture. Apraava Energy is excluded in the figures for 2023, but included in fi gures
for 2022 and prior years.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 183

--- Page 184 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Economic value generated ESG data table GHG accounting methodology
and distributed
Average training hours per employee
GRI/HKEx/
2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
SASB/IFRS
Group total (hours)1 44.1 46.2 51.6 42.5 40.1 GRI 404-1/
HKEx B3.2
By gender (hours)
Male 51.4 53.6 58.2 47.7 44.8
Female 24.4 26.0 33.3 27.6 26.8
By professional category (hours)
Managerial 27.2 23.0 29.5 26.8 26.0
Professional 32.5 33.5 41.2 34.9 35.0
General & technical staff 59.6 63.9 65.8 52.2 47.1
By region (hours)
Hong Kong 52.0 56.3 60.8 49.5 47.6
Mainland China 72.3 85.6 77.8 66.8 66.1
Australia 16.9 11.1 26.8 23.2 22.1
India1 N/A 62.1 48.8 33.8 23.2
1 Apraava Energy ceased to be a subsidiary and is now accounted for as a joint venture. Apraava Energy is excluded in the figures for 2023, but included in fi gures
for 2022 and prior years.
Percentage of employees trained
GRI/HKEx/
2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
SASB/IFRS
Hong Kong (%) 97.8 99.1 97.8 98.4 92.3 HKEx B3.1
By gender
Male 98.3 99.4 98.4 98.4 94.9
Female 96.1 98.2 95.3 98.7 82.2
By professional category
Managerial 93.1 94.6 90.6 96.0 80.6
Professional 97.0 99.3 97.8 99.2 93.1
General & technical staff 99.3 99.6 98.7 98.1 93.1
Mainland China (%) 99.3 95.9 100.0 100.0 100.0
By gender
Male 99.1 97.1 100.0 100.0 100.0
Female 100.0 90.5 100.0 100.0 100.0
By professional category
Managerial 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0
Professional 98.7 92.4 100.0 100.0 100.0
General & technical staff 99.7 98.3 100.0 100.0 100.0
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 184

--- Page 185 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Economic value generated ESG data table GHG accounting methodology
and distributed
GRI/HKEx/
2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
SASB/IFRS
Australia (%) 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0
By gender
Male 99.9 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0
Female 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0
By professional category
Managerial 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0
Professional 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0
General & technical staff 99.9 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0
India (%)1 N/A 94.2 95.9 69.9 81.4
By gender
Male N/A 94.1 95.6 70.4 80.9
Female N/A 95.2 98.1 66.0 85.5
By professional category
Managerial N/A 86.8 96.8 58.6 87.9
Professional N/A 95.7 95.1 74.9 86.3
General & technical staff N/A 94.1 96.7 66.2 66.4
1 Apraava Energy ceased to be a subsidiary and is now accounted for as a joint venture. Apraava Energy is excluded in the figures for 2023, but included in fi gures
for 2022 and prior years.
Gender distribution of Group Executive Committee (GEC) members
GRI/HKEx/
2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
SASB/IFRS
Male (%)1 83.3 73.3 69.2 64.3 64.3 GRI 405-1
Female (%)1 16.7 26.7 30.8 35.7 35.7
1 Includes Executive Director (Chief Executive Officer).
Gender distribution of employees
GRI/HKEx/
2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
SASB/IFRS
Group total (%)1,2
Male 72.8 73.3 73.7 74.0 74.0
Female 27.2 26.7 26.3 26.0 26.0
Hong Kong (%)
Male 76.7 77.3 78.3 79.3 79.4
Female 23.3 22.7 21.7 20.7 20.6
Mainland China (%)
Male 81.9 82.5 83.6 82.9 82.5
Female 18.1 17.5 16.4 17.1 17.5
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 185

--- Page 186 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Economic value generated ESG data table GHG accounting methodology
and distributed
GRI/HKEx/
2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
SASB/IFRS
Australia (%)2
Male 60.6 59.4 58.7 58.4 57.9
Female 39.4 40.6 41.3 41.6 42.1
India (%)1
Male N/A 86.0 87.6 88.0 88.3
Female N/A 14.0 12.4 12.0 11.7
1 Apraava Energy ceased to be a subsidiary and is now accounted for as a joint venture. Apraava Energy is excluded in the figures for 2023, but included in fi gures
for 2022 and prior years.
2 Data of other gender identities is tracked. It is statistically insignificant and is not separately disclosed.
Gender distribution by region and professional category
GRI/HKEx/
2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
SASB/IFRS
Hong Kong (%)
Managerial - male 74.0 72.0 71.1 74.4 75.7
Managerial - female 26.0 28.0 28.9 25.6 24.3
Professional - male 72.8 73.2 74.5 75.7 75.2
Professional - female 27.2 26.8 25.5 24.3 24.8
General & technical staff - male 81.4 82.3 83.1 83.3 83.5
General & technical staff - female 18.6 17.7 16.9 16.7 16.5
Mainland China (%)
Managerial - male 76.9 76.0 77.8 84.8 78.9
Managerial - female 23.1 24.0 22.2 15.2 21.1
Professional - male 80.4 82.7 85.0 84.3 85.2
Professional - female 19.6 17.3 15.0 15.7 14.8
General & technical staff - male 83.5 82.8 82.9 81.9 81.0
General & technical staff - female 16.5 17.2 17.1 18.1 19.0
Australia (%)
Managerial - male 62.1 62.9 61.4 63.8 68.6
Managerial - female 37.9 37.1 38.6 36.3 31.4
Professional - male 57.3 56.6 56.8 55.9 54.5
Professional - female 42.7 43.4 43.2 44.1 45.5
General & technical staff - male 65.0 62.7 61.1 61.4 61.0
General & technical staff - female 35.0 37.3 38.9 38.6 39.0
India (%)1
Managerial - male N/A 89.5 90.3 89.7 90.9
Managerial - female N/A 10.5 9.7 10.3 9.1
Professional - male N/A 89.5 90.2 91.2 89.1
Professional - female N/A 10.5 9.8 8.8 10.9
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 186

--- Page 187 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Economic value generated ESG data table GHG accounting methodology
and distributed
GRI/HKEx/
2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
SASB/IFRS
General & technical staff - male N/A 81.7 84.1 84.3 84.9
General & technical staff - female N/A 18.3 15.9 15.7 15.1
1 Apraava Energy ceased to be a subsidiary and is now accounted for as a joint venture. Apraava Energy is excluded in the figures for 2023, but included in fi gures
for 2022 and prior years.
Gender diversity targets
GRI/HKEx/
2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
SASB/IFRS
Women in Leadership (%)1,2 29.1 29.1 30.5 27.3 24.2
Women in Engineering (%)1,3 13.3 13.0 12.3 11.5 11.4
1 Apraava Energy ceased to be a subsidiary and is now accounted for as a joint venture. Apraava Energy is excluded in the figures for 2023, but included in fi gures
for 2022 and prior years.
2 Leadership positions are defined as positions at Korn Ferry Reference Level 19 and above.
3 Employees with a bachelors' degree or above qualification in engineering.
Employee age distribution
GRI/HKEx/
2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
SASB/IFRS
Group total (%)1,2
Below 30 15.4 14.7 12.8 13.1 13.6
30-39 30.6 31.5 30.6 29.7 29.3
40-49 25.3 25.4 26.5 26.2 26.2
50 and above 28.8 28.4 30.2 31.0 30.9
Hong Kong (%)
Below 30 17.2 16.3 14.0 13.8 13.6
30-39 29.0 27.4 25.5 23.6 22.7
40-49 22.9 23.8 24.5 24.6 25.4
50 and above 30.9 32.5 36.0 38.0 38.3
Mainland China (%)
Below 30 15.1 13.6 13.2 12.5 14.0
30-39 34.5 35.7 33.8 33.8 34.6
40-49 28.5 28.1 30.0 32.7 32.1
50 and above 21.9 22.6 23.0 21.0 19.3
Australia (%)2
Below 30 11.1 12.5 11.4 12.6 13.4
30-39 33.1 34.9 35.9 36.6 37.1
40-49 29.9 28.7 29.8 28.1 26.6
50 and above 25.8 23.9 22.9 22.7 22.9
India (%)1
Below 30 N/A 8.9 5.7 10.2 14.9
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 187

--- Page 188 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Economic value generated ESG data table GHG accounting methodology
and distributed
GRI/HKEx/
2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
SASB/IFRS
30-39 N/A 54.0 54.2 51.8 49.0
40-49 N/A 22.7 25.0 24.2 23.9
50 and above N/A 14.4 15.1 13.8 12.2
1 Apraava Energy ceased to be a subsidiary and is now accounted for as a joint venture. Apraava Energy is excluded in the figures for 2023, but included in fi gures
for 2022 and prior years.
2 Numbers hae been subject to rounding.
Employee average length of service
GRI/HKEx/
2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
SASB/IFRS
Number of years
Hong Kong 13.2 14.1 15.4 16.3 16.8
Mainland China 11.8 12.1 12.3 12.0 11.4
Australia 7.9 7.6 7.4 7.1 5.2
India1 N/A 8.1 8.1 7.6 7.2
1 Apraava Energy ceased to be a subsidiary and is now accounted for as a joint venture. Apraava Energy is excluded in the figures for 2023, but included in fi gures
for 2022 and prior years.
Group safety performance
GRI/HKEx/
2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
SASB/IFRS
Employees1,2
GRI 403-2/
Fatalities (number of personnel)3,4 0 0 0 0 0
HKEx B2.1
GRI 403-2/
Fatality Rate HKEx B2.1/
0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
(number per 200,000 work hours)5,6 SASB IF-
EU-320a.1
Days Away From Work Injuries GRI 403-2
2 6 4 12 7
(number of personnel)4,7
Lost Time Injury Rate
0.03 0.07 0.05 0.13 0.07
(number per 200,000 work hours)6,8
High-consequence Injuries GRI 403-9
0 0 0 N/A N/A
(number of personnel)9
GRI 403-2/
Total Recordable Injury Rate
0.13 0.17 0.14 0.25 0.19 SASB IF-
(number per 200,000 work hours)6,10
EU-320a.1
Work-related Ill Health GRI 403-10/
3 4 1 0 0
(number of personnel)4,11 HKEx B2.1
GRI 403-2/
Lost Days (number of days)12 125 176 304 443 464
HKEx B2.2
Contractors1,2
GRI 403-2/
Fatalities (number of personnel)3,4 0 0 0 0 1
HKEx B2.1
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 188

--- Page 189 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Economic value generated ESG data table GHG accounting methodology
and distributed
GRI/HKEx/
2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
SASB/IFRS
GRI 403-2/
Fatality Rate HKEx B2.1/
0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.01
(number per 200,000 work hours)5,6 SASB IF-
EU-320a.1
Days Away From Work Injuries GRI 403-2
8 15 10 10 19
(number of personnel)4,7
Lost Time Injury Rate
0.09 0.11 0.08 0.09 0.14
(number per 200,000 work hours)6,8
High-consequence Injuries GRI 403-9
1 2 1 N/A N/A
(number of personnel)9
GRI 403-2/
Total Recordable Injury Rate
0.22 0.31 0.29 0.37 0.52 SASB IF-
(number per 200,000 work hours)6,10
EU-320a.1
Employees and
contractors combined1,2
GRI 403-2/
Fatalities (number of personnel)3,4 0 0 0 0 1
HKEx B2.1
GRI 403-2/
Fatality Rate HKEx B2.1/
0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
(number per 200,000 work hours)5,6 SASB IF-
EU-320a.1
Days Away From Work Injuries GRI 403-2
10 21 14 22 26
(number of personnel)4,7
Lost Time Injury Rate
0.06 0.10 0.07 0.11 0.11
(number per 200,000 work hours)6,8
High-consequence Injuries GRI 403-9
1 2 1 N/A N/A
(number of personnel)9
GRI 403-2/
Total Recordable Injury Rate
0.18 0.25 0.23 0.32 0.38 SASB IF-
(number per 200,000 work hours)6,10
EU-320a.1
1 Apraava Energy ceased to be a subsidiary and is now accounted for as a joint venture. Apraava Energy is excluded in the figures for 2023, but included in figures for
2022 and prior years. Moreover, in November 2022, CLP sold its 70% interest in the coal-fired Fanchanggang Power Station, which has been excluded from CLP’s
reporting scope since then.
2 The system of rules applied in recording and reporting accident statistics complies with the International Labour Organization (ILO) Code of Practice on Recording
and Notification of Occupational Accidents and Diseases.
3 Refers to the number of fatalities as a result of work-related injury.
4 Starting from 2021, the unit is changed from the number of cases to the number of personnel.
5 Refers to the number of fatal injuries per 200,000 work hours in the year.
6 Rates are normalised to 200,000 work hours, which approximately equals to the number of hours worked by 100 people in one year.
7 Starting from 2021, “Days Away From Work Injuries” replaces “Lost Time Injury”. Days Away From Work Injuries refers to the number of personnel who sustain a
work-related injury and are unfit to perform any work on any day after the occurrence of the injury. “Any day” is any calendar day which includes rest days, weekend
days, leave days, public holidays or days after ceasing employment. It does not include the day the injury incident occurred. “Days Away From Work Injuries” excludes
fatalities which were included in “Lost Time Injury”. Numbers prior to 2021 are the previously reported numbers for “Lost Time Injury”.
8 Refers to the number of Days Away From Work Injuries and Fatalities per 200,000 work hours in the year.
9 Refers to the number of personnel who sustain life threatening or life-altering work-related injury. It is a subset of Days Away From Work Injuries.
10Refers to the number of Total Recordable Injuries per 200,000 work hours in the year. Total Recordable Injuries include Fatalities, Days Away From Work Injuries,
Restricted Work Injuries, and Medical Treatment Injuries.
11Starting from 2021, “Work-related Ill Health” replaces “Occupational Disease”. Work-related Ill Health includes the diseases listed in the ILO List of Occupational
Diseases, work-related mental illnesses and work-related disorders. Numbers prior to 2021 are the previously reported numbers for “Occupational Disease”.
12Starting from 2021, “Lost Days” replaces “Days Lost”. “Lost Days” is the sum total of calendar days (consecutive or otherwise) after the days on which the work-related
injuries and work-related ill health occurred. “Days Lost” accounts the working days instead of calendar days. Numbers prior to 2021 are the previously reported
numbers for “Days Lost”.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 189

--- Page 190 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Economic value generated ESG data table GHG accounting methodology
and distributed
Regional safety performance
GRI/HKEx/
2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
SASB/IFRS
Hong Kong1,2
Employees
GRI 403-2/
Fatalities (number of personnel) 0 0 0 0 0
HKEx B2.1
GRI 403-2/
Fatality Rate HKEx B2.1/
0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
(number per 200,000 work hours) SASB IF-
EU-320a.1
Days Away from Work Injuries GRI 403-2
1 2 0 4 4
(number of personnel)
Lost Time Injury Rate
0.02 0.04 0.00 0.09 0.09
(number per 200,000 work hours)
High-consequence Injuries GRI 403-9
0 0 0 N/A N/A
(number of personnel)
GRI 403-2/
Total Recordable Injury Rate
0.11 0.12 0.02 0.21 0.19 SASB IF-
(number per 200,000 work hours)
EU-320a.1
Work-related Ill Health GRI 403-10/
0 0 0 0 0
(number of personnel) HKEx B2.1
GRI 403-2/
Lost Days (number of days) 8 16 0 119 246
HKEx B2.2
Contractors
GRI 403-2/
Fatalities (number of personnel) 0 0 0 0 0
HKEx B2.1
GRI 403-2/
Fatality Rate HKEx B2.1/
0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
(number per 200,000 work hours) SASB IF-
EU-320a.1
Days Away from Work Injuries GRI 403-2
5 9 4 5 15
(number of personnel)
Lost Time Injury Rate
0.07 0.13 0.07 0.10 0.21
(number per 200,000 work hours)
High-consequence Injuries GRI 403-9
0 0 0 N/A N/A
(number of personnel)
GRI 403-2/
Total Recordable Injury Rate
0.15 0.16 0.14 0.30 0.51 SASB IF-
(number per 200,000 work hours)
EU-320a.1
Mainland China1
Employees
GRI 403-2/
Fatalities (number of personnel) 0 0 0 0 0
HKEx B2.1
GRI 403-2/
Fatality Rate HKEx B2.1/
0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
(number per 200,000 work hours) SASB IF-
EU-320a.1
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 190

--- Page 191 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Economic value generated ESG data table GHG accounting methodology
and distributed
GRI/HKEx/
2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
SASB/IFRS
Days Away from Work Injuries GRI 403-2
0 0 0 2 0
(number of personnel)
Lost Time Injury Rate
0.00 0.00 0.00 0.19 0.00
(number per 200,000 work hours)
High-consequence Injuries GRI 403-9
0 0 0 N/A N/A
(number of personnel)
GRI 403-2/
Total Recordable Injury Rate
0.00 0.30 0.00 0.19 0.10 SASB IF-
(number per 200,000 work hours)
EU-320a.1
Work-related Ill Health GRI 403-10/
0 0 0 0 0
(number of personnel) HKEx B2.1
GRI 403-2/
Lost Days (number of days) 0 0 19 59 0
HKEx B2.2
Contractors
GRI 403-2/
Fatalities (number of personnel) 0 0 0 0 0
HKEx B2.1
GRI 403-2/
Fatality Rate HKEx B2.1/
0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
(number per 200,000 work hours) SASB IF-
EU-320a.1
Days Away from Work Injuries GRI 403-2
0 0 0 1 0
(number of personnel)
Lost Time Injury Rate
0.00 0.00 0.00 0.10 0.00
(number per 200,000 work hours)
High-consequence Injuries GRI 403-9
0 0 0 N/A N/A
(number of personnel)
GRI 403-2/
Total Recordable Injury Rate
0.00 0.00 0.08 0.49 0.00 SASB IF-
(number per 200,000 work hours)
EU-320a.1
Australia1
Employees
GRI 403-2/
Fatalities (number of personnel) 0 0 0 0 0
HKEx B2.1
GRI 403-2/
Fatality Rate HKEx B2.1/
0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
(number per 200,000 work hours) SASB IF-
EU-320a.1
Days Away from Work Injuries GRI 403-2
1 4 4 6 3
(number of personnel)
Lost Time Injury Rate
0.05 0.18 0.18 0.25 0.10
(number per 200,000 work hours)
High-consequence Injuries GRI 403-9
0 0 0 N/A N/A
(number of personnel)
GRI 403-2/
Total Recordable Injury Rate
0.19 0.28 0.45 0.46 0.31 SASB IF-
(number per 200,000 work hours)
EU-320a.1
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 191

--- Page 192 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Economic value generated ESG data table GHG accounting methodology
and distributed
GRI/HKEx/
2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
SASB/IFRS
Work-related Ill Health GRI 403-10/
3 4 1 0 0
(number of personnel) HKEx B2.1
GRI 403-2/
Lost Days (number of days) 117 160 285 265 218
HKEx B2.2
Contractors
GRI 403-2/
Fatalities (number of personnel) 0 0 0 0 0
HKEx B2.1
GRI 403-2/
Fatality Rate HKEx B2.1/
0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
(number per 200,000 work hours) SASB IF-
EU-320a.1
Days Away from Work Injuries GRI 403-2
3 3 5 2 2
(number of personnel)
Lost Time Injury Rate
0.19 0.26 0.40 0.11 0.12
(number per 200,000 work hours)
High-consequence Injuries GRI 403-9
1 1 0 N/A N/A
(number of personnel)
GRI 403-2/
Total Recordable Injury Rate
0.64 0.86 0.97 0.44 0.62 SASB IF-
(number per 200,000 work hours)
EU-320a.1
India1
Employees
GRI 403-2/
Fatalities (number of personnel) N/A 0 0 0 0
HKEx B2.1
GRI 403-2/
Fatality Rate HKEx B2.1/
N/A 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
(number per 200,000 work hours) SASB IF-
EU-320a.1
Days Away from Work Injuries GRI 403-2
N/A 0 0 0 0
(number of personnel)
Lost Time Injury Rate
N/A 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
(number per 200,000 work hours)
High-consequence Injuries GRI 403-9
N/A 0 0 N/A N/A
(number of personnel)
GRI 403-2/
Total Recordable Injury Rate
N/A 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 SASB IF-
(number per 200,000 work hours)
EU-320a.1
Work-related Ill Health GRI 403-10/
N/A 0 0 0 0
(number of personnel) HKEx B2.1
GRI 403-2/
Lost Days (number of days) N/A 0 0 0 0
HKEx B2.2
Contractors
GRI 403-2/
Fatalities (number of personnel) N/A 0 0 0 0
HKEx B2.1
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 192

--- Page 193 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Economic value generated ESG data table GHG accounting methodology
and distributed
GRI/HKEx/
2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
SASB/IFRS
GRI 403-2/
Fatality Rate HKEx B2.1/
N/A 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
(number per 200,000 work hours) SASB IF-
EU-320a.1
Days Away from Work Injuries GRI 403-2
N/A 3 1 2 0
(number of personnel)
Lost Time Injury Rate
N/A 0.07 0.03 0.07 0.00
(number per 200,000 work hours)
High-consequence Injuries GRI 403-9
N/A 1 1 N/A N/A
(number of personnel)
GRI 403-2/
Total Recordable Injury Rate
N/A 0.44 0.41 0.46 0.68 SASB IF-
(number per 200,000 work hours)
EU-320a.1
1 The system of rules applied in recording and reporting accident statistics complies with the International Labour Organization (ILO) Code of Practice on Recording
and Notification of Occupational Accidents and Diseases.
2 Starting from 2022, regional data in Hong Kong includes data from CLP Power, CLPe Holdings and CLP Holdings. Before that data in CLP Holdings included data from
CLPe and CLP Holdings, while data in Hong Kong included data from CLP Power. The change reflects the new operating model in CLP in 2022.
The 2023 data shaded in orange has been independently verified by KPMG. The assurance scope of past years' data can be found
in previous sustainability reports.
Partners
Contributions to organisations
GRI/HKEx/
2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
SASB/IFRS
Lobbying, interest representation or GRI 415-1
0 0 0 0 0
similar (HK$M)1
Local, regional or national
political campaigns, organisations or 0 0 0 0 0
candidates (HK$M)1
Trade associations or tax-exempt
8.05 8.69 14.12 8.90 8.04
groups (e.g. think tanks) (HK$M)1,2
Others (e.g. spending related to ballot
0 0 0 0 0
measures or referendums) (HK$M)1
1 Apraava Energy ceased to be a subsidiary and is now accounted for as a joint venture. Apraava Energy is excluded in the figures for 2023, but included in fi gures
for 2022 and prior years.
2 Includes contributions to trade associations or tax-exempt groups that seek to influence public policy in the form of memberships, donations or sponsorship. The
scope was reviewed in 2023.
Code of Conduct
GRI/HKEx/
2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
SASB/IFRS
Total number of breaches of Code of
Conduct reported to the Audit & Risk 12 10 18 25 31
Committee (cases)1
1 Apraava Energy ceased to be a subsidiary and is now accounted for as a joint venture. Apraava Energy is excluded in the figures for 2023, but included in fi gures
for 2022 and prior years.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 193

--- Page 194 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Economic value generated ESG data table GHG accounting methodology
and distributed
Anti-corruption
GRI/HKEx/
2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
SASB/IFRS
Convicted cases of corruption GRI 205-3/
reported to the Audit & Risk 0 0 0 0 0 HKEx B7.1
Committee (cases)1
1 Apraava Energy ceased to be a subsidiary and is now accounted for as a joint venture. Apraava Energy is excluded in the figures for 2023, but included in fi gures
for 2022 and prior years.
Supplier distribution
GRI/HKEx/
2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
SASB/IFRS
Total suppliers by region (number)1 4,215 6,127 5,659 5,777 6,362 GRI 2-6/
HKEx B5.1
Australia 1,853 1,894 1,942 2,216 2,215
Mainland China 1,090 1,257 1,216 1,142 1,166
Hong Kong 1,030 1,058 1,025 1,013 1,000
India 3 1,667 1,197 1,134 1,704
Others (Asia Pacific) 63 64 67 70 77
Europe 96 105 112 121 118
America 78 88 98 78 77
Rest of the world 2 1 2 3 5
1 There are a few multinational companies having transactions in more than one regions through their local offices, but we combine the local offices and treat one
multinational companies as one supplier in our supply base.
Payments to suppliers
GRI/HKEx/
2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
SASB/IFRS
Total payment to suppliers by GRI 204-1
42,023 54,794 43,997 36,544 36,746
region (HK$M)
Australia 10,831 12,727 10,617 8,526 8,356
Mainland China 15,346 19,937 17,226 15,577 11,603
Hong Kong 10,205 9,233 8,296 8,501 8,888
India 24 4,343 2,977 1,999 3,104
Others (Asia Pacific) 3,905 5,821 3016 960 3,093
Europe 1,300 1,854 1630 753 1,234
America 409 878 232 221 458
Rest of the world 3 1 3 5 10
The 2023 data shaded in orange has been independently verified by KPMG. The assurance scope of past years' data can be found
in previous sustainability reports.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 194

--- Page 195 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Economic value generated ESG data table GHG accounting methodology
and distributed
Community
Community investment
GRI/HKEx/
2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
SASB/IFRS
Community programmes GRI 415-1
458 481 443 468 663
implemented (number)1
1 Apraava Energy ceased to be a subsidiary and is now accounted for as a joint venture. Apraava Energy is excluded in the figures for 2023, but included in fi gures
for 2022 and prior years.
Community spending
GRI/HKEx/
2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
SASB/IFRS
Community spending by theme (%)1,2
Education and Development 6 5 6 11 18
Community Wellbeing 31 30 35 28 9
Environment 58 61 56 57 68
Arts and Culture 2 2 1 2 2
Community Engagement 3 2 2 2 3
Community spending by region (%)1,2
Hong Kong 98 94 90 84 81
Mainland China 1 1 1 2 1
Australia 1 2 2 5 10
India1 N/A 3 7 9 8
Southeast Asia & Taiwan 0 0 0 0 0
1 Apraava Energy ceased to be a subsidiary and is now accounted for as a joint venture. Apraava Energy is excluded in the figures for 2023, but included in fi gures
for 2022 and prior years.
2 Numbers have been subject to rounding. Any discrepancies between the total shown and the sum of the amounts listed are due to rounding.
Donations
GRI/HKEx/
2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
SASB/IFRS
Amount donated for charitable and
9.18 10.02 15.09 27.00 20.98
other purposes (HK$M)1,2
1 Apraava Energy ceased to be a subsidiary and is now accounted for as a joint venture. Apraava Energy is excluded in the figures for 2023, but included in fi gures
for 2022 and prior years.
2 Numbers have been subject to rounding.
Time and expertise contributed
GRI/HKEx/
2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
SASB/IFRS
Volunteer hours from CLP staff and
16,701 19,329 16,541 10,973 20,015
family members (hours)1,2
Skill-based (%)1,3 4.7 12.2 0.4 0.8 0.5
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 195

--- Page 196 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Economic value generated ESG data table GHG accounting methodology
and distributed
GRI/HKEx/
2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
SASB/IFRS
Non skill-based (%)1,4 95.3 87.8 99.6 99.2 99.5
1 Apraava Energy ceased to be a subsidiary and is now accounted for as a joint venture. Apraava Energy is excluded in the figures for 2023, but included in fi gures
for 2022 and prior years.
2 Numbers have been subject to rounding.
3 Refers to volunteering work that requires electrical engineering skills or licenses.
4 Refers to hands-on, generic services that do not require professional electrical engineering skills or licenses.
Beneficiaries
GRI/HKEx/
2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
SASB/IFRS
Beneficiaries (number)1
Direct beneficiaries 626,000+ 1,305,000+ 1,580,000+ 918,000+ 615,000+
Organisations benefitted2 291 280 232 263 401
Beneficiaries by theme (%)1,3
Education and Development 46.7 15.9 13.0 26.5 63.1
Community Wellbeing 22.7 72.1 63.0 65.0 20.3
Environment 25.7 9.9 23.9 8.3 16.1
Arts and Culture 4.9 2.1 0.1 0.2 0.5
1 Apraava Energy ceased to be a subsidiary and is now accounted for as a joint venture. Apraava Energy is excluded in the figures for 2023, but included in fi gures
for 2022 and prior years.
2 Includes professional bodies, academic institutes, NGOs and community groups.
3 Numbers have been subject to rounding. Any discrepancies between the total shown and the sum of the amounts listed are due to rounding.
Nuclear safety
GRI/HKEx/
2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
SASB/IFRS
Workers
Collective radiation dosage for
1,324.3 719.8 641.7 676.2 960.0
workers (man-mSv)
Nuclear-related waste
Spent nuclear fuel (t) 37.7 75.4 33.1 37.7 75.2
Low- to intermediate-level
53.0 58.8 26.0 71.0 89.4
radioactive nuclear waste (m3)
Apraava Energy
Climate change
2023
Greenhouse gas emissions
CLP Group's generation and energy storage portfolio
CO (kt) 6,924
2
COe (kt) 6,958
2
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 196

--- Page 197 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Economic value generated ESG data table GHG accounting methodology
and distributed
Environment
2023
Environmental compliance
Environmental regulatory non-compliances resulting in fines or prosecutions (number) 0
Environmental licence limit exceedances & other non-compliances (number) 11
Air pollutants
Nitrogen oxides (NO) (kt)1 9.0
x
Sulphur dioxide (SO) (kt)1 5.8
2
Particulates (kt)1 1.0
Sulphur hexafluoride (SF) (kt)1 0
6
Mercury (t)1 0.02
Waste produced and recycled
Hazardous solid waste (t)1,2
Produced 155
Recycled 26
Hazardous liquid waste (kl)1,2
Produced 17
Recycled 17
Non-hazardous solid waste (t)1,2
Produced 779
Recycled 721
Non-hazardous liquid waste (kl)1,2
Produced 0
Recycled 0
By-products
Ash produced (kt)1 2,122
Ash recycled / sold (kt)1 2,135
Gypsum produced (kt)1 114
Gypsum recycled / sold (kt)1 114
Water
Total water withdrawal (Mm3)1,3 14.4
For cooling purpose
Water withdrawal from freshwater resources 14.2
Water withdrawal from marine water resources 0
For non-cooling purposes
Water withdrawal from freshwater resources 0.3
Water withdrawal from municipal sources 0
Total freshwater withdrawal from water stressed areas 14.4
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 197

--- Page 198 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Economic value generated ESG data table GHG accounting methodology
and distributed
2023
Total water discharge (Mm3)1,3 0
From cooling process
Treated wastewater to freshwater bodies 0
Water discharge to marine water bodies 0
Wastewater to other destinations 0
From non-cooling processes
Treated wastewater to freshwater bodies 0
Treated wastewater to marine water bodies 0
Wastewater to other destinations 0
Wastewater to sewerage 0
Total freshwater consumption of Apraava's power generation (Mm3) 14.4
Total freshwater consumption under water stressed areas (Mm3) 14.4
Freshwater intensity
Freshwater intensity of Apraava's power generation (m3/MWh) 1.44
Freshwater reused/recycled
Freshwater reused/recycled volume (Mm3) 104.7
1 Numbers at asset level have been aggregated and then rounded.
2 Waste categorised in accordance with local regulations.
3 Numbers have been subject to rounding. Any discrepancies between the total shown and the sum of the amounts listed are due to rounding.
Customers
2023
Fuel use
Coal consumed (for power generation) (TJ)1,2 77,355
Oil consumed (for power generation) (TJ)1,2 30
Total energy sent out (GWh)1,2 10,047
1 Numbers have been subject to rounding.
2 Paguthan Power Station, the power purchase agreements of which expired in December 2018, was not included in the 2023 numbers.
Our people
2023
Total employee headcount (number) 492
Voluntary staff turnover rate (%)1 9.4
Employee eligible to retire in the next five years (%)2 4.3
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 198

--- Page 199 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Economic value generated ESG data table GHG accounting methodology
and distributed
2023
Safety performance
Employees3
Fatalities (number of personnel)4 0
Fatality Rate (number per 200,000 work hours)5,6 0.00
Days Away From Work Injuries (number of personnel)7 0
Lost Time Injury Rate
(number per 200,000 work hours)6,8 0.00
High-consequence Injuries (number of personnel)9 0
Total Recordable Injury Rate
(number per 200,000 work hours)6,10 0.22
Work-related Ill Health (number of personnel)11 0
Lost Days (number of days)12 0
Contractors3
Fatalities (number of personnel)4 1
Fatality Rate (number per 200,000 work hours)5,6 0.02
Days Away From Work Injuries (number of personnel)7 2
Lost Time Injury Rate
(number per 200,000 work hours)6,8 0.07
High-consequence Injuries (number of personnel)9 2
Total Recordable Injury Rate
(number per 200,000 work hours)6,10 0.47
Employees and contractors combined3
Fatalities (number of personnel)4 1
Fatality Rate (number per 200,000 work hours)5,6 0.02
Days Away From Work Injuries (number of personnel)7 2
Lost Time Injury Rate
(number per 200,000 work hours)6,8 0.07
High-consequence Injuries (number of personnel)9 2
Total Recordable Injury Rate
(number per 200,000 work hours)6,10 0.45
1 Voluntary staff turnover refers to employees leaving the organisation voluntarily and does not include dismissal, retirement, company-initiated termination or end
of contract.
2 The percentages given refer to permanent employees, who are eligible to retire within the next five years.
3 The system of rules applied in recording and reporting accident statistics complies with the International Labour Organization (ILO) Code of Practice on Recording
and Notification of Occupational Accidents and Diseases.
4 Refers to the number of fatalities as a result of work-related injury.
5 Refers to the number of fatal injuries per 200,000 work hours in the year.
6 Rates are normalised to 200,000 work hours, which approximately equals to the number of hours worked by 100 people in one year.
7 “Days Away From Work Injuries” has replaced “Lost Time Injury”. Days Away From Work Injuries refers to the number of personnel who sustains work-related injury
and is unfit to perform any work on any day after the occurrence of the injury. “Any day” is any calendar day which includes rest days, weekend days, leave days,
public holidays or days after ceasing employment. It does not include the day the injury incident occurred. “Days Away From Work Injuries” excludes fatalities which
were included in “Lost Time Injury”.
8 Refers to the number of Days Away From Work Injuries and Fatalities per 200,000 work hours in the year.
9 Refers to the number of personnel who sustain life-threatening or life-altering work-related injury. It is a subset of Days Away From Work Injuries.
10Refers to the number of Total Recordable Injuries per 200,000 work hours in the year. Total Recordable Injuries include Fatalities, Days Away From Work Injuries,
Restricted Work Injuries, and Medical Treatment Injuries.
11Work-related Ill Health includes the diseases listed in the ILO List of Occupational Diseases, work-related mental illnesses and work-related disorders.
12“Lost Days” is the sum total of calendar days (consecutive or otherwise) after the days on which the work-related injuries and work-related ill health occurred.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 199

--- Page 200 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Economic value generated ESG data table GHG accounting methodology
and distributed
Community
2023
Programmes
Community programmes implemented (number) 61
Spending
Community spending by theme (%)1
Education and Development 9
Community Wellbeing 72
Environment 14
Arts and Culture 0
Community Engagement 5
Donations
Amount donated for charitable and other purposes (HK$M) 0
Time and expertise contributed
Volunteer hours from CLP staff and family members (hours)1 3,395
Skill-based (%)2 0.1
Non skill-based (%)3 99.9
Beneficiaries
Beneficiaries (number)
Direct beneficiaries 130,000+
Organisations benefitted4 12
Beneficiaries by theme (%)1
Education and Development 7.9
Community Wellbeing 80.1
Environment 12.0
Arts and Culture 0.0
1 Numbers have been subject to rounding.
2 Refers to volunteering work that requires electrical engineering skills or licenses.
3 Refers to hands-on, generic services that do not require professional electrical engineering skills or licenses.
4 Includes professional bodies, academic institutes, NGOs and community groups.
Code of Conduct and Anti-corruption
2023
Code of Conduct
Total number of breaches of Code of Conduct reported to the Audit & Risk Committee (cases) 5
Anti-corruption
Convicted cases of corruption reported to the Audit & Risk Committee (cases) 0
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 200

--- Page 201 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Economic value generated ESG data table GHG accounting methodology
and distributed
GHG accounting methodology
GRI reference: 302-2, 305-1, 305-2, 305-3, 305-4, 305-5 of proven non-SF gas equipment at transmission level will be
6
closely monitored.
Greenhouse gas (GHG) reporting guideline
Compilation bases
A Group-wide GHG Reporting Guideline was first developed in
2007 to specify the collection and compilation methodology CLP reports the GHG emissions of its generation and energy
of the Group’s GHG data. The Guideline was developed storage portfolio on three consolidation bases to provide a
with reference to the following international standards comprehensive overview of its carbon footprint and progress
and guidelines: in decarbonisation efforts. The three bases are:
• •
The Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Equity basis: This includes the electricity generated by
Reporting Standard (Revised Edition) of the World Business CLP’s assets. It accounts for the Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG
Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) and the emissions according to CLP’s equity share in the portfolio.
World Resources Institute (WRI); The equity basis reflects economic interest, indicating the
• extent of GHG risks and opportunities CLP has from assets
The Greenhouse Gas Protocol: Corporate Value Chain
in which it holds a majority or minority share.
(Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard;
•
• Equity and long-term capacity and energy purchases:
The Greenhouse Gas Protocol: Technical Guidance for
This includes both electricity generated by CLP’s assets
Calculating Scope 3 Emissions (Version 1);
as well as the electricity purchased through capacity,
•
The 2006 Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change
energy purchase agreements and spot purchase. It allows
(IPCC) Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories;
stakeholders to better understand the GHG intensity of
•
The relevant IPCC Assessment Report; the electricity CLP delivers to customers. In addition
• to the GHG emissions from the equity basis, it also
The International Standard for GHG Emissions ISO 14064-1:
includes the direct GHG emissions from the generation of
Greenhouse Gases; and
purchased electricity.
•
Methodologies agreed with local authorities. •
Operational control: This represents the total GHG
emissions from generation assets where CLP has direct
The CLP GHG Reporting Guideline is reviewed in accordance
influence and control on operational matters. CLP has been
with CLP internal practices and updated with the latest
disclosing its combined total Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG
references at least once every three years. The current
emissions on this basis for over a decade, and will continue
Guideline was last updated in 2020.
to demonstrate its long-term progress.
CLP’s GHG emissions inventory covers six GHGs specified in
Conscious of emissions along the value chain, in 2019, the
the Kyoto Protocol, including carbon-dioxide (CO), methane
2 Company conducted a review of its Scope 3 emissions and
(CH), nitrous oxide (NO), hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), and
4 2 started to disclose Scope 3 emissions to present a more
sulphur hexafluoride (SF). Perfluorocarbons (PFCs) are also
6 comprehensive picture of its footprint along the value chain.
included but not used in CLP’s operations. Nitrogen t rifluoride
Scope 3 emissions typically represent less than 40% of CLP’s
(NF), the seventh mandatory gas added under the second
3 GHG emissions.
Kyoto Protocol, was also considered for inclusion, but after
evaluation was deemed immaterial to CLP’s operations.
The GHG reporting scope definitions for GHG emissions are
available here.
Focus has been given to sulphur hexafluoride (SF), an
6
insulating gas commonly used in switchgears and transmission
lines. CLP is aware of its high global warming potential and
therefore is vigilant in controlling SF leakage throughout
6
the life cycle of electrical equipment, and actively exploring
ways to reduce the use of SF in its business. For example,
6
in Hong Kong in 2022, a field trial on non-SF gas
6
switchgears at distribution level has started and availability
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 201

--- Page 202 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Economic value generated ESG data table GHG accounting methodology
and distributed
Calculation methodologies jurisdictions. In cases where local emission factors are not
available, other recognised sources are referenced.
Scope 1 & Scope 2 GHG emissions
The Scope 1 emissions and location-based Scope 2 emissions Scope 3 GHG emissions
are calculated in accordance with CLP’s GHG Reporting The table below summaries the Scope 3 categories that
Guideline outlined above. were identified as relevant to CLP, and how their emissions
are calculated.
Annually, CLP obtains emission factors from each business
unit’s local government and authority in their respective
Scope 3 GHG emissions categories relevant to CLP
Scope 3 category Relevance to CLP Calculation and emission factors
•
1: Purchased goods a) Products-related emissions Assessed using the average-data method. The quantities of natural gas
and services relate to the upstream supplied are multiplied by State-based upstream emission factors to
emissions of EnergyAustralia’s calculate the emissions.
Emissions from the natural gas retail business, • Emission factors source: Australia’s National Greenhouse Accounts
extraction, production and including the emissions from Report 2023.
transportation of goods upstream gas production and
and services purchased transmission, and distribution
or acquired. leakage in the State
pipeline systems.
•
b) Non-products-related Assessed using the spend-based method. Country-based World Input-
emissions relate to the Output Database (WIOD) factors are applied to the financial spend on
upstream emissions of CLP’s the purchase of non-product-related goods and services.
purchased goods and services •
Emission factors source: WIOD Release 2016.
other than natural gas for
retail business.
•
2: Capital goods Relates to the upstream Assessed using the spend-based method. Country-based WIOD factors are
emissions of CLP’s purchased applied to the financial spend on the purchase of capital goods.
Emissions from the capital goods, mainly for • Emission factors source: WIOD Release 2016.
extraction, production infrastructure construction
and transportation of and facility upgrades.
capital goods purchased
or acquired.
•
3: Fuel- and energy- Includes the upstream Assessed using the average-data method.
related activities emissions of purchased fuels •
Upstream emissions (Well-to-tank, WTT) of purchased fuels and electricity
and electricity for CLP's
are calculated by using volumes of purchased fuels and electricity and
Emissions related to the power generation. country-based WTT emission factors, where available. Where such volumes
extraction, production and are not available, the ratio of the WTT emission factor to direct emission
transportation of fuels factor for each fuel type is applied to the Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions of
and energy purchased the generation assets.
or acquired. •
Emission factors source: Australia’s National Greenhouse Accounts
Report 2023, and 2023 UK Government GHG Conversion Factors for
Company Reporting.
•
Includes the direct emissions Direct emissions and upstream emissions from the generation of purchased
from the generation of electricity that is sold to CLP's customers are assessed using the supplier-
purchased electricity that is specific method. This involves using emissions data of generation assets
sold to CLP's customers. whose capacity and energy are purchased by CLP to meet customer
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 202

--- Page 203 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Economic value generated ESG data table GHG accounting methodology
and distributed
Scope 3 category Relevance to CLP Calculation and emission factors
Includes the upstream demand. The calculation multiplies the percentages of capacity and energy
emissions from the generation purchased by CLP with direct emissions and upstream emissions (WTT) of
of purchased electricity that is the generation assets.
sold to CLP's customers. •
Emissions from the generation of purchased electricity that is sold to CLP's
customers also include the emissions from the net electricity purchased
by EnergyAustralia from the Australian Energy Market Operator (AEMO).
This is assessed using the average-data method, which involves estimating
emissions by using grid average emission factors, and is calculated through
multiplying the net electricity purchased from AEMO with State-based
emission factors.
•
Emission factors source: Australia’s National Greenhouse Accounts
Report 2023, and 2023 UK Government GHG Conversion Factors for
Company Reporting.
•
5: Waste generated Emissions from fuel ash and Assessed using the waste-type specific method based on waste produced
in operations gypsum as both represent by type.
the most significant waste •
Calculated through applying emission factors to quantities of fuel ash
Emissions from the material generated. and gypsum generated at CLP’s coal-fired power stations, considering the
disposal and treatment of disposal method.
waste generated. •
Emission factors source: 2023 UK Government GHG Conversion Factors for
Company Reporting.
•
6: Business travel Air travel is the most material Assessed using the distance-based method.
source of emissions from •
Air travel emissions for CLP’s operations in Hong Kong and Australia
Emissions from the business travel. are directly calculated using flight distance by travel classes multiplied
transportation of by corresponding emission factors. Emissions from the other regions of
employees for business- operations are calculated through extrapolation based on CLP’s fi nancial
related activities. spend on business travel.
•
Emission factors source: 2023 UK Government GHG Conversion Factors for
Company Reporting.
•
7: Employee commuting Relates to the emissions of Calculated through the number of CLP’s employees, estimated travel mode
CLP’s employees in commuting and average distance travelled by region.
Emissions from the to offices and worksites. This • Emission factors source: 2023 UK Government GHG Conversion Factors for
transportation of typically includes emissions Company Reporting.
employees between their from automobile travel, bus
homes and their worksites. travel, etc.
•
11: Use of sold products Relates to the downstream Calculated through multiplying the quantities of natural gas supplied to
emissions of EnergyAustralia’s customers by State-based emission factors.
Emissions from the end- natural gas retail business, • Emission factors source: Australia’s National Greenhouse Accounts
use of products sold. including the emissions from Report 2023.
the combustion of natural gas
supplied to customers.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 203

--- Page 204 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Economic value generated ESG data table GHG accounting methodology
and distributed
The following categories were identified as not relevant to CLP, and hence not included in the Scope 3 emissions p rofile
for reporting.
Scope 3 categories that are not considered relevant to CLP
Scope 3 category Explanation
4: Upstream transportation and distribution The emissions are covered in Category 1 as the financial spend on
transportation and distribution is embedded in the financial spend on
Emissions from the transportation and distribution of purchased purchased goods and services.
goods and services.
8: Upstream leased assets CLP does not operate leased generation assets. The emissions of
leased offices are included in CLP’s Scope 2 emissions.
Emissions from the operation of assets leased by the reporting
company, i.e. lessee.
9: Downstream transportation and distribution Electricity and gas are the main products of CLP. Transportation and
distribution of the products does not involve vehicles or facilities not
Emissions from the transportation and distribution of products sold owned or controlled by the Group.
between operations and the end consumer, in vehicles and facilities
not owned or controlled or paid for by the reporting company.
10: Processing of sold products With electricity and gas being CLP's main products, they are end
products without a further processing requirement.
Emissions from the processing of intermediate products sold by
downstream companies, e.g. manufacturers.
12: End-of-life treatment of sold products With electricity and gas being CLP's main products, there is no end-of-
life treatment requirement.
Emissions from the disposal and treatment of products sold at the end
of their life.
13: Downstream leased assets Leasing is not a main business for CLP.
Emissions from the operation of assets owned by the reporting
company (lessor) and leased to other entities.
14: Franchises CLP does not have any franchising business.
Emissions from the operation of franchises.
15. Investments CLP reports Scope 3 emissions on an equity basis. This category applies
to CLP only when an operational control basis is adopted and therefore
Emissions from operation of investments. does not apply.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 204

--- Page 205 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Glossary
Air emissions The emission of air pollutants such as sulphur dioxide (SO), nitrogen oxides (NO) and particulate matter (PMs).
2 x
Availability The fraction of a given operating period in which a generating unit is available without outages and capacity
reductions. This is also known as the Equivalent Availability Factor.
Baseload An operating regime of power generation at a reasonably constant rate to serve continuous system load, and not
designed to respond to peak demands or emergencies.
Capacity purchase Additional third-party owned power generation capacity contracted by CLP under long-term agreements to meet
customer demand. Some of these agreements may confer CLP rights to use the generation assets and exercise
dispatch control as if they belonged to the Group.
Capital investments Includes additions to fixed assets, right-of-use assets and intangible assets, investments in and advances to joint
ventures and associates, and acquisition of businesses.
Carbon credit A carbon credit is a tradeable instrument which represents either: (a) a permit which gives the holder the right to
emit one tonne of carbon dioxide or equivalent greenhouse gas (tCOe) into the atmosphere; or (b) a certificate from
2
a project that represents the removal or avoidance of one tCOe from the atmosphere.
2
CLP Carbon Credits (https://www.clpcarboncredits.com) are generated from renewable energy sources and can
be used to offset carbon emissions generated by governments, organisations or individuals.
Carbon neutral When the greenhouse gas emissions associated with an activity or entity are balanced by carbon removal
elsewhere, such as carbon credits, carbon sinks or storage, and renewable energy certificates.
Circular Economy Circular Economy is defined in general as a framework that can address the global challenges of climate change,
biodiversity loss, waste, and pollution, which is achieved through three principles – eliminating waste and
pollution, circulating products and materials at their highest value and regenerating nature. Embracing the
Circular Economy, an utility company can contribute to the transition to a more sustainable and resilient energy
and resource management system by adopting cleaner technologies, promoting resource efficiency and investing
in nature conservation.
Climate Action Finance Launched in 2017, CAFF supports the transition to a low-carbon economy by attracting socially responsible,
Framework (CAFF) sustainable financings, and to support CLP’s investments that reduce the carbon content of energy generated
and increase the efficiency of energy usage. The CAFF formalises and governs project evaluation, management of
proceeds and reporting for Climate Action Finance Transactions, including bonds, loans and other forms of finance.
Climate Vision 2050 CLP’s Climate Vision 2050 sets out the blueprint of the Group’s transition to net-zero greenhouse gas emissions
leading up to mid-century. Launched in 2007 with a focus on the ambition to mitigate CLP’s climate impact, Climate
Vision 2050 has been instrumental in informing CLP’s business strategy and guiding its investment decision-
making.
Combined-cycle gas A technology used in gas-fired generation to enable significantly higher efficiency by utilising residual heat from
turbine (CCGT) a gas turbine exhaust to run a steam turbine and generate additional electricity.
Decarbonisation Decarbonisation of the power sector primarily refers to the reduction in the greenhouse gas emissions from
electricity generation, and providing lower-carbon energy services and solutions to customers. At CLP it is
measured by the reduction in carbon intensity, which is expressed in kilograms of carbon dioxide per kilowatt hour
of electricity sent-out.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 205

--- Page 206 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Decentralised Refers to electrical generation and storage performed by a variety of technologies of a smaller scale located
generation / close to the load they serve. In contrast, centralised generation is the large-scale generation of electricity serving
distributed generation multi-loads connected to the transmission network.
Demand response Demand response programmes encourage participating customers to commit to short-term reductions in
electricity demand, helping energy suppliers to keep the grid running optimally during high load periods.
Digitalisation The application of new information technologies including artificial intelligence and data analytics to help electric
utilities develop new customer-centric services and improve operations.
Distributed energy Distributed energy includes power generated from sources such as solar panels and wind turbines located close
to the users, as well as controllable loads or storage such as electric vehicles and batteries.
Electricity sent-out Gross electricity generated by a power plant less self-generated auxiliary power consumption, measured at the
connecting point between the generating unit and transmission line.
Energy-as-a-Service A business strategy of energy companies to provide a more diverse range of value-adding energy services and
solutions such as consultancy, energy management and distributed energy resources to customers, in addition to
basic utility services.
Energy attribute EACs are a category of contractual instrument that conveys certain information (or attributes) about the energy
certificates (EACs) generated, including the resources used to create it, the emissions associated with its production, the location of
the facility that generated the unit of energy and when the unit of energy was produced. EACs are usually issued
for renewable energy. Currently, CLP offers two types of EACs, namely Green Electricity Certificates (GECs) and
Renewable Energy Certificates (RECs). See definitions of both in this Glossary.
Energy purchase Electricity purchased by CLP to meet customer demand under long-term agreements from power plants not
owned by CLP, and without existing capacity purchase agreements with the Group.
Energy security The uninterrupted availability of energy sources.
Energy transition The transition of the global energy sector from fossil-fuel based energy systems to low- or zero-carbon sources.
Energy Non-generation products or services that facilitate the energy transition, including energy storage, transmission
transition enablers and distribution, electric vehicle charging points and smart meters, amongst others.
Equity basis An approach set out by the GHG Protocol Corporate Standard for an organisation to consolidate GHG emissions
for the purpose of accounting and reporting GHG emissions. On this basis, the organisation accounts for GHG
emissions from operations according to its equity share in the operations.
Feed-in Tariff (FiT) Payable by Hong Kong power companies under the SoC Agreement to purchase electricity from approved
renewable energy projects. Find out more at https://www.clp.com.hk/en/business/low-carbon-solutions/
renewable-energy/feed-in-tariff-business
Flue gas desulphurisation Equipment used to remove sulphur oxides from the combustion gases of a boiler plant before discharge to
(FGD) facility the atmosphere.
Generation capacity The maximum amount of power that a generator is rated to produce. Also known as installed capacity or
nameplate capacity.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 206

--- Page 207 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Green Electricity GECs refer to the energy attribute corresponding to the electricity sold by renewable energy projects. In
Certificates (GECs) Mainland China, the origin of GECs are certified by National Energy Administration Renewable Information
Management Centre.
Greenhouse gas (GHG) The emission of gases that contribute to the greenhouse effect causing a changing climate. CLP’s GHG emissions
inventory covers the six GHGs specified in the Kyoto Protocol. Nitrogen trifluoride (NF), the seventh mandatory
3
gas added under the second Kyoto Protocol was deemed immaterial to CLP’s operations after an evaluation.
The GHG Protocol Corporate Standard classifies an organisation’s GHG emissions into three ‘Scopes’. Scope 1
emissions are direct emissions from owned or controlled sources. Scope 2 emissions are indirect emissions from
the generation of purchased energy. Scope 3 are indirect emissions (not included in Scope 2) that occur in the value
chain of the organisation.
Just transition For energy companies, the transition to a net-zero economy directly impacts individuals, workers, and
communities. A just transition seeks to mitigate negative impacts on people while effectively harnessing
opportunities to deliver equitable and inclusive outcomes.
Megatrends Large, transformative global forces that define the future by having a far-reaching impact on business, economies,
industries, societies and individuals. A megatrend is distinguished from other trends in that it cannot be stopped
or significantly altered, even by powerful actors such as governments.
Megatrend analysis is an important tool for companies aiming to drive sustainable growth as competition
increases and new disruptive ideas and concepts affect entire industries.
Microgrids Localised networks with generation, energy storage and load entities, that can operate in tandem with an existing
grid or independently. They can potentially be deployed to meet the energy needs of remote areas cost-effectively,
foregoing the expense of transmission grids.
National Electricity Australia’s NEM is a wholesale spot market connecting six regional market jurisdictions – Queensland, New South
Market (NEM) Wales, the Australian Capital Territory, Victoria, South Australia and Tasmania.
Nature Nature is the natural world, with an emphasis on the diversity of living organisms (including people) and their
interactions among themselves and with their environment. In the context of corporations, these interactions
includes ecosystems providing different ecosystems services, and corporation’s operational impacts and fi nancial
implications that arise from nature loss.
Net-zero greenhouse When greenhouse gas emissions are reduced, and the residual emissions are balanced by the removal of an
gas emissions equivalent amount of greenhouse gases from the atmosphere.
Non-carbon energy/non- Energy from power sources that adds no extra carbon to the atmosphere, such as wind, solar, hydro and nuclear
carbon emitting energy energy. It does not include waste-from-energy and other forms of biomass.
Operational control basis An approach set out by the GHG Protocol Corporate Standard for an organisation to consolidate GHG emissions for
the purpose of accounting and reporting GHG emissions. On this basis, the organisation accounts for 100 percent of
the GHG emissions from operations over which it has operational control, but does not account for GHG emissions
from operations in which it owns an interest but has no control.
Offtake A long-term agreement to purchase electricity from another generator. See capacity purchase.
Particulate matter (PM) Microscopic solids or liquid droplets in the air.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 207

--- Page 208 ---
Welcome About this Report Approach to Our Sustainability Respecting Nature Serving Our ESG Data & GHG
Sustainability Agenda Stakeholders Methodology
Peaking plant A power generating station that is normally used to produce extra electricity during peak load times.
Phase out c oal-fired In CLP’s context, phasing out coal-fired generation capacity refers to: (a) the retirement and closure of a c oal-fired
generation capacity power asset; (b) the move away from a build-operate-transfer coal-fired project before the end of the contract
term or according to the terms of the project; or (c) the divestment from a coal-fired asset.
Photovoltaic panels Photovoltaic (PV) panels convert solar energy into DC electricity.
Power Purchase A long-term electricity supply agreement specifying deliverables such as the capacity allocation, the quantity of
Agreement (PPA) electricity to be supplied and financial terms.
Pumped storage A method used for large-scale storage of power. During non-peak times, electricity is used to pump water to a
reservoir. During peak times, the reservoir releases water for hydroelectric generation.
Renewable energy Energy that is generated from renewable resources, which are naturally replenished on a human timescale,
including sunlight, geothermal heat, wind, tides, water, waste-to-energy and various forms of biomass.
Renewable Energy In Hong Kong, RECs represent all the environmental attributes associated with electricity produced by local
Certificates (RECs) renewable sources in Hong Kong including solar, wind and landfill gas, purchased or generated by CLP Power Hong
Kong Limited (CLP Power).
Scheme of Control The SCA with the Hong Kong Government provides a regulatory framework for the city’s electricity industry,
Agreement (SCA) enabling CLP Power Hong Kong to operate its facilities and plan new investments to meet the electricity demand
of customers, as well as environmental objectives.
Science-based target A target for greenhouse gas reductions that is in line with the goals of the Paris Agreement to limit any global
temperature increase to wellhttps://sustainabledevelopment.un.org below 2°C above pre-industrial levels and
pursue efforts to limit warming to 1.5°C.
Start-up accelerator A programme that offers support, including financing and mentorship, to facilitate the development of start-
up companies.
Sustainable Development The 17 SDGs, adopted by all United Nations Member States in 2015, are the blueprint to achieve a better and more
Goals (SDGs) sustainable future for all. Find out more on https://sdgs.un.org/.
Utilisation Gross generation by a power plant unit in a given period as a fraction of the gross maximum generation. Also known
as Gross Capacity Factor.
Waste-to-energy A form of renewable energy generation using waste such as landfill gas.
CLP Holdings 2023 Sustainability Report | 208

--- Page 209 ---
CLP Holdings Limited
中電控股有限公司
8 Laguna Verde Avenue
Hung Hom, Kowloon, Hong Kong
Tel: (852) 2678 8111
Fax: (852) 2760 4448
www.clpgroup.com
Stock Code: 00002